b'












































Microsoft Word - BVT (2018-01-14) NR EPA Submission


 

 
 

 
 

Bee Vectoring Technologies Completes Submission of 

Additional Safety Study for Regulatory Approval Process 

with US Environmental Protection Agency  
 

Mississauga, ON Canada (January 14, 2019) – Bee Vectoring Technologies International Inc. 

("BVT") (TSXV: BEE) (OTCQB: BEVVF) announced today that it has submitted results from the US 

Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) requested honey bee larval safety study along with a weight of 

evidence document in support of its regulatory approval process with the EPA. 

The regulatory approval review process includes performing a risk assessment of the technology by the 

EPA.  This includes looking at the exposure risk to workers and the environment, including bees, along 

with any potential toxicity.  Since this is the first time a product that is being applied by bees is being 

evaluated by the EPA, BVT provided additional information in the form of a "weight of evidence" 

document discussing in particular the exposure risk to honey bee brood to help in EPA's review of the 

regulatory submission. 

"BVT has a unique system which means we are similarly a unique file with the EPA," said Ashish Malik, 

BVT CEO. "The report and analysis of the larval study, and the supporting material were very detailed 

and comprehensive.  Over 800 pages of material in support of the approval process were provided to the 

agency as part of this submission.  We are pleased to be pioneering new science and introducing 

innovative crop protection alternatives to EPA for their review and consideration." 

 

About Bee Vectoring Technologies International Inc. - www.beevt.com 

BVT has developed and owns patent-pending bee vectoring technology that is designed to harmlessly 

utilize bumblebees and honey bees as natural delivery mechanisms for a variety of powdered mixtures 

comprised of organic compounds that inhibit or control common crop diseases, while at the same time 

enhancing crop vigor and productivity. This unique and proprietary process enables a targeted delivery of 

crop controls using the simple process of bee pollination to replace traditional crop spraying, resulting in 

better yields, superior quality, and less impact on the environment without the use of water or disruptions 

to labour. 

 

For further information contact: 
 
Ashish Malik, President & CEO 
marketing@beevt.com  
 
Babak Pedram, Investor Relations 
Virtus Advisory Group 
Tel: 416-995-8651 
bpedram@virtusadvisory.com 

 

 



Forward-Looking Statement Cautions: 

Certain statements contained in this press release constitute "forward-looking information" as such term is 
defined in applicable Canadian securities legislation. The words "may", "would", "could", "should", 
"potential", "will", "seek", "intend", "plan", "anticipate", "believe", "estimate", "expect" and similar 
expressions as they relate to the Company, "annual revenue potential", are intended to identify forward-
looking information. All statements other than statements of historical fact may be forward-looking 
information. Such statements reflect the Company's current views and intentions with respect to future 
events, and current information available to the Company, and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties 
and assumptions including selling price of competitive chemical pesticides and the US to Canadian dollar 
exchange rate. Material factors or assumptions were applied in providing forward-looking information. 
Many factors could cause the actual results, performance or achievements that may be expressed or 
implied by such forward-looking information to vary from those described herein should one or more of 
these risks or uncertainties materialize. These factors include changes in law, competition, litigation, the 
ability to implement business strategies and pursue business opportunities, state of the capital markets, 
the availability of funds and resources to pursue operations, new technologies, the ability to protect 
intellectual property rights, the ability to obtain patent protection for products, third-party intellectual 
property infringement claims, regulatory changes affecting products, failing research and development 
activities, the ability to reach and sustain profitability, dependence on business and technical experts, the 
ability to effectively manage business operations and growth, issuance of debt, dilution of existing 
securities, volatility of publicly traded securities, potential conflicts of interest, unlikelihood of dividend 
payments, the potential costs stemming from defending third-party intellectual property infringement 
claims, the ability to secure relationships with manufacturers and purchasers, as well as general 
economic, market and business conditions, as well as those risk factors discussed or referred to in the 
Company's Filing Statement dated May 29, 2015, filed with the securities regulatory authorities in certain 
provinces of Canada and available at www.sedar.com. Should any factor affect the Company in an 
unexpected manner, or should assumptions underlying the forward-looking information prove incorrect, 
the actual results or events may differ materially from the results or events predicted. Any such forward-
looking information is expressly qualified in its entirety by this cautionary statement. Moreover, the 
Company does not assume responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of such forward-looking 
information. The forward-looking information included in this press release is made as of the date of this 
press release and the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking 
information, other than as required by applicable law. All figures are in Canadian dollars. 

 

Neither TSX Venture Exchange nor its Regulation Services Provider (as that term is defined in the policies of the TSX 
Venture Exchange) accepts responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of this release. 

 


'