b'















































   BMC MINERALS (NO.1) LTD          July 15, 2019 
 

 
BMC MINERALS (NO.1) LTD 

Incorporated in British Columbia, Canada, Reg No. BC 1014247 

Vancouver Office: Suite 750 – 789 West Pender St., Vancouver BC V6C 1H2 

T: +1 778 379 9262   F: +1 778 379 9263   W: www.kudzzekayah.com 

 

 

BMC MINERALS ANNOUNCES POSITIVE FEASIBILITY STUDY RESULTS FOR 
THE KUDZ ZE KAYAH PROJECT, YUKON 

 
BMC MINERALS (No. 1) LTD ("BMC Minerals" or the "Company"), a wholly owned subsidiary of BMC (UK) LIMITED 
("BMC UK"), today reports positive results from the Feasibility Study conducted on its 100% owned Kudz Ze Kayah 
Project located in Yukon, Canada. A Technical Report for the Feasibility Study which has been prepared in 
accordance with National Instrument 43-101 ("NI 43-101") will be lodged with SEDAR within 45 days of this 
release. All dollar amounts herein are expressed in United States dollars, unless otherwise indicated. 

Feasibility Study Highlights1 

Probable Mineral Reserve (NI 43-101)2 15.7 Mt @ 5.8% Zn, 1.7% Pb, 0.9% Cu, 
 138g/t Ag, 1.3g/t Au 

915.0 kt Zn, 265.7 kt Pb, 135.8 kt Cu,       
666 koz Au, 69.5 Moz Ag 

Annual expected metal in concentrate production 
(average steady-state3) 

• Zinc 

• Copper 

• Lead 

• Silver 

•  Gold  

 
Annual Production 

235 million lb 
32 million lb 
56 million lb 
7.8 million oz 

56,500 oz 

Initial Mining/Processing Life 9 years 

Notional Construction Period 20 months 

Mining Method split open pit 89%, underground 11% 

Average Mill Processing Rate 2.0 million tonnes/year 

Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization 
("EBITDA")4 (expected steady state production3 average per annum) 

$245 million  

Net Present Value4,5 ("NPV") after tax, @ 7% discount rate (30 June 2019)  $527 million  

Internal Rate of Return4,5 ("IRR") after tax (30 June 2019) 39.6%  

C1 Cash Cost Zinc per lb (net of by-product credits)4,5 $(0.25)  

All In Sustaining Cost ("AISC") Zinc per lb (net of by-product credits)4,5   $(0.06)  

C1 Cash Cost Silver per oz (net of by-product credit) 4,5 $(21.43) 

All In Sustaining Costs ("AISC") Silver per oz (net of by-product credits)4,5  $(15.78) 

Pre-production Capital Cost4,5 $381 million  

Payback Period5 2.0 Years  
 

 

                                                           
1 Results presented are anticipated or expected results derived from the Feasibility Study. 
2 See Page 8 of News Release for further information. 
3 Excludes first and last years of production. 
4 These are non-IFRS Financial Measures. Please refer to description of these terms in the "Non-IFRS Financial Measures" disclaimer at the end of this 
document. 
5 Base Case: Metal prices and exchange rate based on long term consensus assumptions of Cu US$3.15/lb, Zn US$1.10/lb, Pb US$0.95/lb, Au US$1,321/oz, Ag 
US$18.09/oz and foreign exchange rate of C$1.00:US$0.78. NPV and IRR calculations are as at the Feasibility Study completion date of 30 June 2019. 

http://www.kudzzekayah.com/


BMC MINERALS (NO.1) LTD 
 

2 | P a g e  
 

Scott Donaldson, BMC Mineral's President commented: "The Feasibility Study confirms the Kudz Ze Kayah Project 

is expected to have high grades, high precious metals content, high margins and low costs with strong cashflows 

resulting in an anticipated capital payback within two years of production commencing." 

Feasibility Study Key Results 

BMC MINERALS (No. 1) LTD, a 100% owned subsidiary of BMC (UK) LIMITED, is 100% owner of the Kudz Ze Kayah 

Project (the "Project") located in southeast Yukon, Canada. BMC Minerals have completed a Feasibility Study 

centred on the ABM deposit, a zinc-silver dominant polymetallic volcanogenic massive sulphide ("VMS") deposit 

with copper, lead and gold credits. The Feasibility Study currently contemplates only mining and processing of the 

ABM and Krakatoa Zones that comprise the ABM deposit, one of several base and precious metal-rich VMS deposits 

identified in the district that are either owned or optioned by BMC Minerals. The Company believes that the district 

remains highly prospective in terms of the potential for future discovery. Additional work is planned to be 

undertaken with the aim of building a mineral resource base that could significantly extend the life of the Project.  

Physicals1  

Metal in concentrate production (average steady-state2) 
o Zinc 
o Copper 
o Lead 
o Silver 
o Gold 

                         Annual Production 
106.8 kt 
14.4 kt 
25.3 kt 

7.8 Moz 
56.5 koz  

Assumptions  

Base case metal prices and exchange rate - based on long term 
consensus assumptions, using flat metal prices & exchange rate 

Cu $3.15/lb, Pb $0.95/lb, Zn $1.10 /lb,  
Au $1,321/oz, Ag $18.09/oz 

C$1.00:US$0.78 

NPV Discount rate (base case) 7% 

Project Economics (base case)  

Anticipated Pre-Production Capital Costs  
$381 million (including owner & indirect costs 
of $95 million, and $36 million contingency) 

Expected EBITDA 2,3  
(steady state production average per annum) 

$245 million 

Life of Mine ("LOM") EBITDA2,3 $1,981 

Anticipated Site Operating Costs3 $/t ore $69.83 

Expected C1 Cash Cost3 Zinc per lb (net of by-product credits) $(0.25)  

Anticipated AISC3 Zinc per lb (net of by-product credits) $(0.06)  

Expected C1 Cash Cost3 Silver per oz (net of by-product credits) $(21.43) 

Anticipated AISC3 Silver per oz (net of by-product credits) $(15.78) 

NPV3 after tax @ 7% discount rate (30 June 2019) $527 million 

IRR3 after tax (30 June 2019) 39.6% 

Anticipated Payback Period 2.0 Years 

Table 1: Key Feasibility Study Results 

 

                                                           
1 Results presented are anticipated or expected results derived from the Feasibility Study. 
2 Excludes first and last years of production. 
3 These are non-IFRS Financial Measures. Please refer to description of these terms in the "Non-IFRS Financial Measures" disclaimer at the end of 
this document.  Reference date 30 June 2019. 



BMC MINERALS (NO.1) LTD 
 

3 | P a g e  
 

The Feasibility Study outlines development of a project with mining and processing occurring at an expected 

average rate of two (2) million tonnes per annum (Mtpa), with ore mined from both open pit and underground 

being treated through a concentrator processing facility to be located adjacent to the mine. Nearly 90% of ore will 

be mined by open pit mining, with the remainder sourced from a small underground mine, pursuant to the mining 

plan contained in the Feasibility Study. Underground development is anticipated to commence in production year 

three (3), with underground ore production expected to commence in production year five (5). The Processing Plant 

design will use conventional flotation technology to produce separate zinc, lead and copper concentrates, with the 

copper and lead concentrates being expected to contain significant precious metal credits. First concentrate sales 

are scheduled to occur in 2022, with concentrates to be transported via existing highways to the port of Stewart 

(British Columbia) for export to market.  

The Feasibility Study assumes preliminary detailed engineering commences approximately six (6) months prior to 

grant of a Quartz Mining Licence expected in 2020, with these costs included in the pre-production capital. 

BMC Minerals has incorporated a dry stack tailings and reactive rock co-disposal storage facility and a modern water 

treatment facility into the Project design to ensure that the Project meets Company and community expectations.   

Opportunities 

The Feasibility Study has identified several opportunities for project enhancement, which will be further assessed 

prior to construction commencing. These include: 

• Detailed assessment of construction material requirement and its availability on site, aimed at reducing 

pre-production mining requirements and pre-production capital costs. 

• Conversion of Inferred Mineral Resources included in the proposed open pit to Indicated Resource 

classification, so as to deliver additional Probable Reserves into the mine plan.   

• Conversion of additional Inferred Mineral Resource, not included in the current underground mine plan, to 

Indicated Mineral Resource classification and subsequent conversion into Probable Reserves. 

It should be noted that the confidence in Inferred Mineral Resources is insufficient to allow the meaningful 

application of technical and economic parameters to enable an evaluation of economic viability. Accordingly, it 

cannot be assumed that all or any part of an Inferred Mineral Resource will ever be upgraded to a higher category. 

  



BMC MINERALS (NO.1) LTD 
 

4 | P a g e  
 

Summary of Feasibility Study Results 

Physicals  

The base case described in the Feasibility Study contemplates a combined open pit and underground mining 

operation, with a concentrator processing facility and associated infrastructure.  

 

Physicals1 Unit  
  Project construction months 20 

First concentrate sales  date H1 2022 

Final concentrate sales  date H1 2029 

Average processing rate Mtpa 2.0 

Ore processed (LOM) tonnes 15.7 million 

Zinc grade % 5.8 

Lead grade % 1.7 

Copper grade % 0.9 

Silver grade g/t 138 

Gold grade g/t 1.3 

   

Concentrate Production  
Annual Average at 

Steady State2 
Life of Mine 

Copper dmt 57.6 kt 401 kt 

Zinc  dmt 205.2 kt 1,516 kt 

Lead dmt 49.2 kt 377 kt 

Metal Production   
Annual Average at 

Steady State2 
Life of Mine 

Zinc tonnes 106.8 kt  786.3 kt 

Copper tonnes 14.4 kt 100.2 kt 

Lead tonnes 25.3 kt 195.4 kt 

Silver oz 7.8 Moz 59.8 Moz  

Gold oz 56.5 koz 432 koz 

Table 2: Key physical data derived from Feasibility Study – Base Case 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

                                                           
1 Results presented are anticipated or expected results derived from the Feasibility Study. 
2 Excludes first and last years of production. 



BMC MINERALS (NO.1) LTD 
 

5 | P a g e  
 

Capital Costs  

Pre-production capital costs have been estimated at $381 million, including owner and indirect costs of $95 million 
and $36 million contingency. Sustaining and closure capital costs over the life of the project have been estimated 
at $206 million (Table 3). The total capital requirement over the life of mine has been estimated at $587 million 
including underground development and closure costs. The capital cost estimate is accurate to within the normal 
limits expected for a Feasibility study as defined in Canadian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy and Petroleum 
("CIM") Definition Standards for Mineral Resources & Mineral Reserves.  

Capital Cost Summary12 Pre-
production 
($ million) 

Sustaining  
($ million) 

Closure 
($ million) 

Total  
($ million) 

Open Pit Mining 26 43 - 68 

Underground Mining 0 78 - 78 

Process Plant 152 3 - 155 

Water Treatment Plant 17 2 - 19 

Infrastructure 56 1 - 57 

Closure  - - 79 79 

Sub-Total Direct Costs 251 127 79 456 

Owners and Indirect 95 included above  included above 95 

Contingency 36 included above included above 36 

Total Capital Costs  381 127 79 587 

Table 3: Capital cost summary – Base Case 

Operating Costs 

Operating cost estimates are based on a combination of operating experience, reference projects, first principle 

calculations, third party quotes and estimates, and other factors as appropriate for a Feasibility Study. The total 

LOM operating cost estimates are summarized in Table 4 and are accurate to the normal limits expected of a study 

of this nature and in accordance with CIM. The costs presented exclude capitalized pre-production mining costs 

which are included in the pre-production capital costs. 

Operating Cost Summary1 ,2 Units of Ore 
Mined (Mt) 

Unit Mining 
Cost ($/t ore) 

LOM Total  
($ million) 

Avg Unit Cost  
($/t processed) 

Production Cost  
($/lb payable Zn) 

Open Pit Mining 13.99 34.63 485 30.82 0.33 

Underground Mining 1.73 71.84 124 7.90 0.08 

Processing & Water Treatment   270 17.20 0.18 

General & Administration (site)   119 7.56 0.08 

Equipment Leases   61 3.87 0.04 

First Nations (direct payments only)   39 2.48 0.03 

Site Operating Costs 15.72 38.72 1,098 69.83 0.75 

Concentrate Marketing (offsite G&A)   11 0.73 0.01 

Transport & Shipping   442 28.13 0.30 

Treatment and Refining Costs   531 33.78 0.36 

By Product Credits   -2,444 -155.46 -1.67 

C1 Cash Costs Zinc3   -361 -22.99 -0.25 

Yukon Government Royalties   173 11.02 0.10 

Sustaining Capital   127 8.05 0.09 

AISC Zinc3   -62 -3.92 -0.06 

Table 4: Operating cost summary – Base Case 

                                                           
1 Results presented are anticipated or expressed results derived from the Feasibility Study. 
2 Cost summations may differ slightly from totals due to rounding. 
3 These are non-IFRS Financial Measures. Please refer to description of these terms in the "Non-IFRS Financial Measures" disclaimer at the 
end of this document 



BMC MINERALS (NO.1) LTD 
 

6 | P a g e  
 

Economic Results 

The Feasibility Study demonstrates that the project is expected to be a robust, high-margin project. Key anticipated 
economic results are summarized in Table 5 and are based on long term metal consensus prices of US$1.10/lb zinc, 
US$0.95/lb lead, US$3.15/lb copper, US$18.09/oz silver and US$1,321/oz gold and a foreign exchange rate of 
C$1.00:US$0.78. 

 
Economic Summary1 Unit Amount 

Revenue2 $ million 4,064 

Net Revenue3 $ million 3,090 

Site Operating Cost  $/tonne 69.83 

Offsite Operating Cost $/tonne 62.65 

EBITDA3 $ million 1,981 

NPV3 7% discount rate after tax  $ million 527 

IRR3 after tax % 39.6 

Payback period  years 2.0 

Table 5: Economic Summary - Base Case 

 
 

 

 

Figure 1: Net Revenue by metal produced.1,3 

 

The Feasibility Study was completed in June 2019 with a resulting NPV of US$527m (after tax at a 7% discount rate). 
For comparison purposes only, it is noted that the projected NPV at January 2020 using the same assumptions and 
parameters as are presented in the Feasibility Study is US$551m. The NPV calculations are at the "project level" 
and do not include consideration of corporate sunk costs since acquisition in January 2015. 

Financial Analysis 

The Kudz Ze Kayah Project is anticipated to produce copper, zinc and lead concentrates. The copper and lead 
concentrates in particular are expected to contain high levels of precious metals that are in turn expected to result 
in significant precious metals credits as an offset to operating costs. Once these by-product credits are accounted 
for, the Kudz Ze Kayah Project is anticipated to be a low cost producer when compared against other zinc and silver 
mines. 

                                                           
1 Results presented are anticipated or expected results derived from the Feasibility Study. 
2 Revenue as defined by IFRS. 
3 These are non-IFRS Financial Measures. Please refer to description of these terms in the "Non-IFRS Financial Measures" disclaimer at the 
end of this document. 



BMC MINERALS (NO.1) LTD 
 

7 | P a g e  
 

The sensitivities of changes in key variables for the base case NPV are shown in Figure 2. The sensitivities presented 
assume a single variable is changed in isolation, with no other changes in related variables.  In some instances, this 
is a simplification. As an example, there is often a direct inverse relationship between metal recovered to 
concentrate and the concentrate grade.  When metal recovery is increased the concentrate grade may decrease 
due to the increasing additional diluted material often accompanying the increased metal recovery. 

 

 
Figure 2: Key Variable Sensitivities – Base Case1 

                                                           
1 Results presented are anticipated or expected results derived from the Feasibility Study. 



BMC MINERALS (NO.1) LTD 
 

8 | P a g e  
 

Mineral Resource Estimate 

A Mineral Resource Estimate for the ABM Deposit was prepared by CSA Global Pty Ltd in accordance with current 
CIM standards, definitions & guidelines, with an effective date of 31 May 2017. Mineral Resources tabulated below 
are inclusive of Mineral Reserves. 

 
Tonnes Cu Pb Zn Au Ag 

Cu  
metal 

Pb 
metal 

Zn 
metal 

Au 
metal 

Ag 
metal 

Mt wt% wt% wt% g/t g/t Kt Kt kt koz Moz 

ABM Zone (open pittable, at NSR cut-off grade of C$25/tonne) 

Indicated 14.6 1.0 1.6 6.1 1.3 132 140.9 229.1 886.6 614.0 62.1 

Inferred 0.3 1.5 1.5 4.5 1.1 115 4.7 4.9 14.4 10.9 1.2 

Krakatoa Zone (open pittable, at NSR cut-off grade of C$25/tonne) 

Indicated 3.5 0.6 3.2 7.2 1.8 213 21.4 113.2 255.5 204.0 24.3 

Inferred 0.1 0.6 2.3 6.3 1.3 142 0.1 2.1 5.9 3.8 0.4 

Krakatoa Zone (underground, at NSR cut-off grade of C$95/tonne) 

Indicated 0.2 1.0 2.0 6.1 1.7 170 1.7 3.5 10.5 9.2 0.9 

Inferred 0.4 0.8 1.6 9.5 1.2 165 3.2 6.3 37.5 14.9 2.1 

Table 6: ABM Deposit Mineral Resource Estimate (Mineral Resources are inclusive of Mineral Reserve estimate) 

Notes: 

• Mineral Resources in this disclosure were estimated by Aaron Green, MAI.  

• Effective Date of this Mineral Resource is 31 May 2017, as reported in NI 43-101 Technical Report Kudz Ze Kayah Property 
Yukon Territory, Canada, prepared by CSA Global, and available on SEDAR (All key assumptions, parameters and 
estimation methods are contained in same report).  

• Mineral Resources were estimated using current CIM standards, definitions & guidelines.  

• The optimal transition from open pit to underground for the Krakatoa Zone has not been considered when reporting the 
Mineral Resources.  

• Key modifying factors in determining this transition have been factored into reporting of the Mineral Reserve as part of 
the Feasibility Study. 

•  Mineral Resources are inclusive of Mineral Reserves. 

Mineral Reserve Estimate 

The Mineral Reserve Estimate for the ABM Deposit, with an effective date of 30 June 2019, was prepared by CSA 
Global Pty Ltd and reported in accordance with the National Instrument 43-101. Mineral Reserves were estimated 
using current CIM standards, definitions & guidelines, with all Mineral Reserves for the Project classified as 
Probable. The reported Mineral Reserves are inclusive of diluting material that will be mined in conjunction with 
the Mineral Reserves and delivered to the processing plant. 

 
 

Class. 
Tonnes Cu Pb Zn Au Ag 

Cu 
metal 

Pb 
metal 

Zn 
metal 

Au 
metal 

Ag 
metal 

Mt wt% wt% wt% g/t g/t kt kt kt koz Moz 

ABM Zone Probable 13.4 0.9 1.5 5.9 1.3 131 125.8 207.2 789.8 559.0 56.6 

Krakatoa Zone Probable 0.6 0.4 3.1 6.3 1.9 246 2.6 18.8 38.3 36.9 4.8 

Total Open Pit Probable 14.0 0.9 1.6 5.9 1.3 136 128.4 226.0 828.1 596.0 61.4 

Krakatoa Underground Probable 1.7 0.4 2.3 5.0 1.3 147 7.4 39.7 86.9 69.8 8.2 

TOTAL RESERVES Probable 15.7 0.9 1.7 5.8 1.3 138 135.8 265.7 915.0 665.8 69.5 

Table 7: ABM Deposit Probable Mineral Reserve Estimate 

Notes: 

• The Mineral Reserves in this disclosure were estimated by Karl van Olden, QP. 

• The effective date of this Mineral Reserve is 30 June 2019.  

• Numbers have been rounded to reflect the precision of the estimates. 

• The Mineral Reserves were estimated using current CIM standards, definitions and guidelines. 



BMC MINERALS (NO.1) LTD 
 

9 | P a g e  
 

• Open pit Mineral Reserves are reported within a designed open pit to a Net Smelter Return (NSR) cutoff of 
C$29.30/tonne. 

• Overall slope angles for the designed open pit range from 27° to 47°. 

• Underground Mineral Reserves are based on an underhand longhole stoping with cemented paste fill mining method 
and reported to a NSR cutoff of C$173/tonne. 

• Mineral Reserves incorporate estimates of mining dilution and mining recovery.  

• Mineral Reserves have been calculated based on 2018 long term metal prices of US$3.08/lb for copper, US$0.94/lb 
for lead, US$1.10/lb for zinc, US$1,310/oz for gold and US$18.42/oz for silver and an exchange rate of 
C$1.00:US$0.7925. 

• Processing recoveries have been calculated for each of the defined metallurgical domains. Average processing 
recoveries are 73.8% for copper, 73.5% for lead, 85.9% for zinc, 64.9% for gold and 86.0% for silver. 

• NSR calculations represent the net revenue to Mine Gate after accounting for concentrate treatment and refining 

charges, concentrate penalties, concentrate transport costs, government royalties and payments to First Nations. 
 

Yukon, Canada, is a stable geopolitical region with a well understood mining regulatory regime and rule of law. 
There are no known legal, political, environmental, or other risks that could materially affect the potential 
development of the mineral resources or mineral reserves.  

Reporting and modelling of financial results was carried out in June 2019 using current long-term consensus metal 
prices of $3.15/lb copper, $1.10/lb zinc, $0.95/lb lead, $1,321/oz gold, $18.09/oz silver and an exchange rate of 
C$1.00:US$0.78. The Mineral Reserve Estimate was reviewed under the revised metal price and exchange rate 
settings and no adjustments to the calculated Mineral Reserves were considered necessary. 

The Mineral Reserve Estimate takes into consideration on-site operating costs, selling costs, geotechnical analysis, 
metallurgical recoveries, allowances for mining recovery and dilution and overall economic viability as detailed in 
the Feasibility Study. 

Mining 

Pursuant to the mining plan contained in the Feasibility Study the majority of the ABM Deposit will be mined by 
open pit mining methods. It is expected that a single pit will be mined (Figure 3), with mining of the ABM Zone 
comprising four separate stages, and with the Krakatoa Zone mined in a single stage. A total of 14.0 Mt of ore and 
138.4 Mt of waste will be mined by open pit mining methods, for an expected average LOM strip ratio of 9.9:1.  The 
Stage One ABM Zone pit has an expected strip ratio of 6:1, in order to facilitate a rapid payback of pre-production 
capital. 

Open pit mining is planned to be completed over a period of approximately 8.5 years, inclusive of pre-production 
mining requirements. 

Underground mining has only been considered for the deeper portion of the Krakatoa Zone. The primary mining 
method that is planned to be utilized for the underground mine is underhand long hole stoping. All underground 
stope voids are planned to be filled with cemented paste fill. 



BMC MINERALS (NO.1) LTD 
 

10 | P a g e  
 

 
Figure 3: Open pit mine design: ABM and Krakatoa Zones - field of view 1,800m, 10m contours. 

 

The underground mine (Figure 4) is planned to commence at the end of Year three (3), once Stage One of the ABM 

open pit has advanced sufficiently to allow access to in-pit portal locations. 

 
Figure 4: Underground mine design: Krakatoa Zone – showing portal access inside ABM open pit. 

 

Metallurgical test work and Concentrator design 

ALS Metallurgy completed metallurgical test work used for the Feasibility Study at their Perth and Adelaide 
laboratories in Australia. The metallurgical test work programme investigated comminution and flotation 
performance for all metallurgical domains within the deposit using domain composite samples and variability 
samples from each domain. Flotation test work consisted of open circuit batch flotation tests and locked cycle tests 
and confirmed that conventional flotation processes can be utilized to produce separate zinc, lead and copper 
concentrates of commercial grades at acceptable recoveries. 



BMC MINERALS (NO.1) LTD 
 

11 | P a g e  
 

Data from flotation test work was used to derive relationships for recovery of economic metals and deleterious 
elements into concentrates for each domain. Where the data did not support development of a relationship the 
average of all tests were used for predicting processing performance. The life of mine recoveries and concentrate 
grades determined for the Feasibility Study are summarized in Table 8. 

Life of Mine1  Cu  
% 

Pb  
% 

Zn 
 % 

Au  
g/t 

Ag  
g/t 

Copper Concentrate Grade 25.0 - - 14.1 1,984  

Lead Concentrate Grade - 51.8 - 16.2 2,190 

Zinc Concentrate Grade - - 51.9 1.1 157 

Metallurgical Recoveries 73.8% 73.5% 85.9% 64.9% 86.0% 

Table 8: Life of mine metallurgical recoveries and concentrate grades 

The process plant design criteria were derived from the metallurgical test work results. The key design criteria 

selected for the plant design are:  

• Capable of treating both 2.0 Mtpa at the 85th percentile grade and 270 tph at the average head grade of 

every metal assuming average comminution parameters.  

• Design availability of 93% (after ramp-up) with allowance for standby equipment in most areas to achieve 

this availability. 

• Sufficient plant design flexibility for treatment of blended ore types at the design throughput. 

The proposed process plant design is based on a flowsheet with established process technologies in the base metals 

industry, incorporating the following unit process operations: 

• Primary crushing using a jaw crusher to produce a crushed product size of nominally 80% passing (P80) 

130 mm. 

• Stacking of ore onto a conical, covered stockpile with a nominal 12-hour live capacity.  

• Semi-autogenous grinding ("SAG") mill/ball mill configuration comminution circuit including open circuit 

SAG mill and closed-circuit ball mill grinding with potential for recycle of some of the cyclone underflow to 

the SAG mill, to produce a P80 grind size of 70 µm. 

• Sequential flotation of copper, lead and zinc using conventional pre-float, rougher and cleaner flotation 

cells. 

• Regrinding of copper, lead and zinc rougher concentrate with fine grinding mills.  

• Thickening and filtration of the separate copper, lead and zinc concentrates. 

• Storage of the concentrate and load-out via front end loader and truck. 

• Dewatering of the flotation tailings by thickening and filtration with the residual filter cake either 

transported to the dry stack tailings storage facility or combined with cement to produce underground 

paste backfill.  

• Concentrator water and air services and associated infrastructure.  

  

                                                           
1 Results presented are anticipated or expected results derived from the Feasibility Study. 



BMC MINERALS (NO.1) LTD 
 

12 | P a g e  
 

Infrastructure 

Infrastructure required for the development of the project includes upgrading of the existing Access Road, 

construction of waste rock and dry stack tailings storage facilities, water management facilities, water treatment 

plant, site power generation equipment, camp, paste backfill plant, fuel and explosive storage facilities. Waste rock 

and tailings are planned to  be stored in specialist designed waste storage facilities according to the assessed 

potential of the material for acid generation and metal leaching.  Waste rock that is strongly reactive is planned to  

be co-disposed with dry stack tailings in a single storage facility that allows for progressive reclamation so as to limit 

contact with water and oxygen, as well as removing the long-term storage risk associated with conventional wet 

tailings disposal. 

Diversion ditches are planned to be constructed to divert non-contact water around the site, with contact water 

expected to be collected for storage, reuse and treatment as required to ensure that site water discharge quality 

requirements are achieved. 

Concentrate Quality and Marketing 

Metal concentrates are planned to be transported by road to the port of Stewart (British Columbia) for delivery to 

market. It is expected that Asian smelters will be the primary destination for all concentrates produced by the 

Project. 

Offtake Agreements for the project have not been signed, however, the Company has prepared assays of 

concentrates produced from the metallurgical test work programme for review by independent concentrate 

marketing consultants, traders and smelters, who have confirmed that they expect all concentrates will be able to 

be successfully marketed.   

The Feasibility Study indicates that the initial copper circuit commissioning concentrate is anticipated to contain 

elevated levels of As (approximately 0.8 – 1.1%), Sb and Hg alongside high precious metal credits. As a result, 

marketing of the first 30,000 tonnes of copper commissioning concentrate is anticipated to incur higher than 

average life of mine penalty costs. These additional commissioning costs and charges have been incorporated into 

the Feasibility Study financial model in full.   

Permitting 

BMC Minerals submitted a Project Proposal to Yukon Environmental and Socio-economic Assessment Board 

("YESAB") for development of the project in March 2017.  The Project Proposal is currently undergoing Screening 

Review, which will culminate in YESAB preparing a draft Screening Report for public comment and ultimately 

finalization of the Screening Report for consideration by the relevant Decision Body.  BMC Minerals will actively 

manage and respond to information requests from YESAB to enable progression through the permitting process in 

a timely manner. Once the Decision Body has made a decision after consideration of recommendations in the 

Screening Study, BMC Minerals can apply for a Quartz Mining Licence and a Class A Water Licence, both of which 

are requirements for mining and processing at the site. 

The Project Proposal was supported by the collection of approximately 17 years of baseline data by the previous 

project owner, plus a further four years of data collected by BMC Minerals subsequent to acquisition of the project. 

Consultation and engagement with Kaska First Nations, government, affected communities and businesses and 

other stakeholders has been a key focus in the preparation of the Project Proposal. 

First Nations 

BMC Minerals enjoy the pro-mining jurisdiction that exists in Yukon and have strong relationships with all levels of 

government, including local First Nations with whom we have been working collaboratively since acquisition of the 

project in January of 2015. BMC Minerals believes that that the Project can provide a lasting legacy to the 

communities through significant and sustained local benefits. 



BMC MINERALS (NO.1) LTD 
 

13 | P a g e  
 

The Kudz Ze Kayah Project is covered by an existing (2004) Socio-Economic Participation Agreement which is 

currently under modification. BMC Minerals has been working closely and engaging with First Nations for five years. 

A number of First Nations agreements and arrangements exist including capacity funding agreements, education 

scholarships, training and business arrangements, and confidential Traditional Knowledge Management protocols. 

Contacts:  

Scott Donaldson 
President  
scottd@bmcminerals.com 
 

Michael Hale 
VP External Affairs 
michaelh@bmcminerals.com 
+1 867 334 3938   
 
 

 

 
Figure 5: BMC Minerals project outline and location of the ABM Deposit. The claim blocks are held 100% by BMC Minerals 

and, in the case of the Fyre Lake claims encompassing the Kona deposit, under an option to purchase agreement. 

 

  

mailto:scottd@bmcminerals.com
mailto:michaelh@bmcminerals.com


BMC MINERALS (NO.1) LTD 
 

14 | P a g e  
 

About BMC Minerals 

BMC MINERALS (No.1) LTD is the Canadian subsidiary of BMC (UK) Limited, a mining development company. BMC 
UK was created as the result of a strategic relationship between a team of established mine developers and a major 
natural resources private equity group focused on advancing superior base metals assets into development. The 
BMC UK executive team has a strong track record of discovery, development and operation of independent zinc, 
copper and other base metals projects worldwide. BMC UK seeks to identify, acquire and develop a portfolio of 
metals assets during periods of depressed commodity prices, with the express intent of delivering a new suite of 
mining ready production assets into the next commodity cycle upturn. 

BMC Minerals is the owner of the KZK project in southeast Yukon. The company identified the KZK Project as having 
the potential for full mine development due to its size, grade, metallurgical properties and the opportunity for 
resource growth.  

Since acquiring the KZK Project in January 2015, the nearby Wolf project was acquired in 2016, an option to 
purchase over the Fyre Lake (Kona) project was acquired in January 2017, and in March 2018 BMC purchased the 
Tsa Da Glizsa project expanding the Fyre Lake claims area. BMC regard these additional claims, and prospects that 
are known to host significant mineralization, as assets providing a potential development pipeline to compliment 
the KZK Project.  

BMC Minerals is a strong supporter of local businesses; during the 2016-2018 field seasons the majority of suppliers 
and major contractors employed at KZK were from the Yukon or had a strong Yukon background. Moreover, up to 
60% were from businesses or corporations associated with Kaska or other First Nation corporations or members. 
BMC Minerals believes that from development and operation of the KZK Project there will flow additional local 
business opportunities, local community benefits from employment-related skill training and educational 
scholarships, and an increased opportunity for meaningful employment, including at supervisory and management 
levels. BMC Minerals will continue to promote the use of local businesses in the development and the operation of 
the project as far as is practicable. 

 
Figure 6: Location of KZK Project, Yukon, Canada 

  



BMC MINERALS (NO.1) LTD 
 

15 | P a g e  
 

KZK Project 

The ABM Deposit is located within the KZK Project which is situated on the northern flank of the Pelly Mountain 
Range, 260 km northwest of Watson Lake and 115 km southeast of Ross River in Yukon, Canada (Figures 5 & 6). The 
Project area lies approximately 23 km south of Finlayson Lake and 25 km west of the Wolverine Mine (Yukon Zinc). 
The project is accessed via a 20 km long access road from the Robert Campbell Highway, and all-season road access 
exists to ice free port facilities at Skagway (Alaska) and Stewart (British Columbia). 

BMC UK, through its wholly owned Canadian subsidiary BMC MINERALS (No. 1) LTD, purchased the KZK Project 
from Teck Resources Limited ("Teck") on 14th January 2015. The Kudz Ze Kayah Project is covered by a Socio-
Economic Participation Agreement ("SEPA"), with both BMC Minerals and the Ross River Dena Council, on behalf 
of the Kaska Nation, being party to the SEPA. BMC Minerals and Kaska are currently in discussion aimed at 
modernizing this agreement. 

BMC Minerals lodged a mine development proposal with the Yukon Environment and Socio-Economic Assessment 
Board (YESAB) in March 2017. In January 2018, the Company was advised by YESAB that the proposal met all 
Adequacy requirements of the Yukon Environmental Socio-economic Assessment Act, including First Nation 
consultation requirements. The proposal has progressed to the Screening and Public Comment stage of assessment.  
              

Qualified Persons and Technical Report 

The following Qualified Persons under National Instrument 43-101, who participated in preparation of the 2019 
Feasibility Study for BMC MINERALS (No. 1) LTD., have reviewed and approved the content of this news release as 
it pertains to their areas of expertise and project responsibility. Each of the individuals in the following table are 
independent Qualified Persons for the purposes of NI 43-101. 

Name Company Area of Responsibility 

Karl van Olden CSA Global Pty Ltd Mineral Reserve Estimation, 
Mining, Marketing, 
Environmental Studies and 
Permitting, Capital and 
Operating Costs, Economic 
Evaluation, Overall Study 
Author 

Aaron Green CSA Global Pty Ltd Geology and Mineral Resource 
Estimation 

John Fleay DRA Global Metallurgy, Process Plant 
Design 

 

The Qualified Persons confirm that the underlying data used in the preparation of the NI 43-101 report has been 
properly generated, accurately transcribed and suitable for the purpose that the data is used. 

A Technical Report in support of the 2019 Feasibility Study prepared in accordance with National Instrument 43-
101 Standards for Disclosure for Mineral Projects ("NI 43-101") will be filed on SEDAR within 45 days of the date of 
this news release. 

Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements 

All statements, other than statements of historical fact, made and information contained or made in giving this 
announcement is "forward-looking information" within the meaning of applicable Canadian securities legislation. 
Such forward-looking information is based on expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections as well as beliefs 
and assumptions as of the date of this announcement.  

Forward-looking information includes but is not limited to: Certain disclosures in this release, including statements 
relating to concentrate, mineral reserves and mineral resources; plans, projects and intentions with respect to the 



BMC MINERALS (NO.1) LTD 
 

16 | P a g e  
 

further development of the Kudz Ze Kayah Project and future exploration programs; management's assessment of 
the prospectivity of the district surrounding the Kudz Ze Kayah Project;  the projected price of copper, lead, zinc, 
gold and silver, the foreign exchange rate, and the associated economic viability of the Kudz Ze Kayah Project; the 
intent of BMC Minerals to move forward with the permitting phase of the Kudz Ze Kayah Project; the estimated 
after‐tax NPV and IRR associated with the Kudz Ze Kayah Project; the anticipated mine‐life, ore processing , mining 
and production methods, processing and rates, earnings, revenue, economic sensitivities, annual concentrate and 
mineral reserves and mineral resources; metal production, capital costs, and all‐in sustaining costs associated with 
the Kudz Ze Kayah Project; the performance of the Kudz Ze Kayah Project with respect to the creation of jobs, and 
pay back of capital; the estimated timeframe associated with project construction; the Company's ability to 
successfully market the concentrates produced at the Kudz Ze Kayah Project, if any; the Company's intention to 
further examine value‐enhancing opportunities; the Company's intention to apply for and ability to obtain required 
permits in a timely manner constitute forward‐looking statements that are subject to numerous risks, uncertainties 
and other factors relating to BMC Minerals' operations as a mineral exploration company that may cause future 
results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in such forward‐looking statements. 

Forward-looking information may be identified by terminology such as, without limitation, "anticipate", 
"assumption", "believe", "budget", "compelling", "development", "estimate", "exploration", "expectation", 
"forward", "flexibility", "focus", "forecast", "future", "growth", "guidance", "initiative", "intend", "on track", 
"opportunities", "optimization", "outlook", "plan", "positioned", "possibility", "potential", "priority", "probable", 
"program", "progressing", "project", "pursuing", "ramp-up", "risk", "schedule", "target", "trend", and "upside", 
similar such words and phrases or statements that certain actions, events or results may, can, could, would, should, 
might, indicate, or will be taken, and any similar expressions. Forward-looking information is necessarily based upon 
a number of estimates, assumptions and expectations that, while considered reasonable by the Company as of the 
date of such information, is inherently subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and contingencies.  

Such risks, uncertainties and contingencies could cause assumptions, estimates and expectations to be incorrect 
and actual results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking information and, as such, there 
can be no assurance that forward-looking information will prove to be accurate, as actual results and future events 
could differ materially from those anticipated in such information. These risks, uncertainties and contingencies 
include, without limitation: estimates of future production and operating cash and all-in sustaining costs; metal and 
commodity price fluctuations; foreign currency fluctuations; risks associated with mining operations, including, but 
not limited to, environmental hazards, industrial accidents, ground control problems and flooding; geological risks 
including, but not limited to, unusual or unexpected geological formations and events (including, but not limited 
to, rock slides and falls of ground), estimation and modelling of grade, tonnes, metallurgy, continuity of mineral 
deposits, dilution and Mineral Resource and Mineral Reserve estimates, and actual ore mined and/or metal 
recoveries varying from such estimates; risks associated with mine plans, including, but not limited to, mine life or 
life-of-mine (or LOM) estimates; the possibility that future exploration, development or mining results will not be 
consistent with expectations; the potential for and effects of labour disputes, labour shortages, community or other 
civil protests or demonstrations, or other unanticipated difficulties with or interruptions to operations; potential 
for unexpected costs and expenses, including, without limitation, for mine closure and reclamation at current and 
historical operations; uncertain political and economic environments; changes in laws or policies or foreign 
taxation; delays or the inability to obtain and/or maintain necessary governmental approvals and/or permits; 
regulatory investigations, enforcement, sanctions and/or related or other litigation; and  other risks and 
uncertainties, including, but not limited to, those described in the "Cautionary Statement on Forward-Looking 
Information" on the Company's website available at www.bmcminerals.com. There can be no assurance that 
forward-looking information will prove to be accurate or achieved. Accordingly, readers are advised not to place 
undue reliance on forward-looking information. The Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or 
revise any forward-looking information or to explain any material difference between subsequent actual events 
and such forward-looking information, except to the extent required by applicable law. 

 

 



BMC MINERALS (NO.1) LTD 
 

17 | P a g e  
 

Cautionary Statement to US Investors Regarding Mineral Reserves and Mineral Resources 

The terms "Mineral Resource", "Mineral Reserve", "Probable Mineral Reserve", "Indicated Mineral Resource", and 
"Inferred Mineral Resource" used in this news release are Canadian mining terms as defined in accordance with NI 
43‐101 under the guidelines set out in the CIM Standards. Mineral Resources which are not Mineral Reserves do 
not have demonstrated economic viability. 

This news release uses the terms "Inferred Resources" and "Indicated Resources", which have a great amount of 
uncertainty as to their existence, and great uncertainty as to their economic and legal feasibility. It cannot be 
assumed that all or any part of an Inferred and/or Indicated Mineral Resource will ever be upgraded to a higher 
category. Under Canadian rules, estimates of Inferred Resources may not form the basis of feasibility or other 
economic studies. BMC Minerals advises U.S. investors that while this term is recognized and required by Canadian 
regulations, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission does not recognize it. U.S. investors are cautioned not 
to assume that part or all of an Inferred and Indicated resource exists or is economically or legally minable. 

Non-IFRS Financial Measures  

This announcement contains certain financial measures such as NPV, IRR, EBITDA and others which have no 
standardized meaning defined under IFRS and therefore amounts presented may not be comparable to similar data 
presented by other mining companies. This data is intended to provide additional information and should not be 
considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures or performance prepared in accordance with IFRS. 

The following Non-IFRS definitions are provided as they are used in this announcement. 

AISC – All-In Sustaining Costs, includes C1 cash costs, as defined below, plus exploration costs at the Project and 
sustaining capital expenditures (including progressive expansion of waste storage facilities, permitting and 
customary improvements to the operations over the life of the project). AISC is divided by the number of payable 
pounds of zinc or ounces of silver, estimated to be produced for the period to arrive at AISC per zinc pound or silver 
ounce produced.  

C1 Cash Cost – Net Direct Cash Cost (C1) represents the cash cost incurred at each processing stage, from mining 
through to recoverable metal delivered to market, less net by-product credits (if any). The M1 margin is defined as 
metal price received minus C1. 

Direct Cash Costs cover: 
- Mining, ore freight and milling costs. 
- Ore purchase and freight costs from third parties in the case of custom smelters or mills. 
- Mine-site administration and general expenses. 
- Concentrate freight, smelting and smelter general and administrative costs. 
- Materials freight, refining and refinery general and administrative costs. 
- Marketing costs (freight and selling). 

EBIT - Earnings Before Interest and Taxes, or operating earnings, is revenue minus cost of goods sold and the regular 
selling, general, and administrative costs of running the business, excluding interest and taxes. 

EBITDA - Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization. 

IRR – The Internal Rate of Return, is the discount rate that makes the net present value (NPV) of a project zero. In 
other words, it is the expected compound annual rate of return that will be earned on a project or investment. The 
IRR formula is as follows: 

 

Where: CF0 = Initial Investment / Outlay, CF1, CF2, CF3 …. CFn = Cash Flows, n = Each Period, IRR = Internal Rate of 
Return. 



BMC MINERALS (NO.1) LTD 
 

18 | P a g e  
 

NPV – Net Present Value, is the value of all future cash flows (positive and negative) over the entire life of an 
investment discounted to the present. NPV analysis is a form of intrinsic valuation and is used extensively across 
finance and accounting for determining the value of a business, investment security, capital project, new venture, 
cost reduction program, and anything that involves cash flow. The cash flows are "real" numbers (not nominal). 
The NPV formula is as follows: 

 

Where: Rt = net cash inflow-outflows during a single period t, i = discount rate or return that could be earned in 
alternative investments, t = number of time periods. 

Discount Rate – The discount rated used for the NPV is 7%. The reference point for most precious metals projects 
is generally accepted to be 5%. The Company has adopted a discount rate of 7% to reflect the reality that the project 
derives approximately 44% of its revenue from precious metals and 56% from base metals (% Net Revenue). A 
discount rate is the rate of return used to discount future cash flows back to their present value. This rate is often 
a company's Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC), required rate of return, or the hurdle rate investors expect 
to earn relative to the risk of the investment. Hurdle Rate - A hurdle rate, which is also known as minimum 
acceptable rate of return (MARR), is the minimum required rate of return or target rate that investors are expecting 
to receive on an investment. The rate is determined by assessing the cost of capital, risks involved, current 
opportunities in business expansion, rates of return for similar investments, and other factors that could directly 
affect an investment. 

Net Revenue - The difference between Gross Revenue and Net Revenue comprises deduction of costs and charges 
incurred in selling and delivering the concentrate to market once concentrate departs the mine site. It includes 
deductions for road and sea freight, freight insurance, concentrate treatment and refining charges and concentrate 
penalty costs.   

Operating earnings - Has the same meaning as EBIT. 

Payback Period – The Payback Period shows how long it takes for a business to recoup its investment. This type of 
analysis allows firms to compare alternative investment opportunities and decide on a project that returns its 
investment in the shortest time, if that criteria is important to them. 

Management uses these financial measures to assess how the Project is projected to perform and to plan and to 
assess the overall effectiveness and efficiency of the future mining and processing operation. These performance 
measures do not have a meaning within International Financial Reporting Standards ("IFRS") and, therefore, 
amounts presented may not be comparable to similar data presented by other mining companies. These 
performance measures should not be considered in isolation as a substitute for measures of performance in 
accordance with IFRS. 

Note: All dollar amounts are in US dollars unless otherwise denoted. 


'