b'












































Microsoft Word - Tchentlo Project 43-101 - amended July 30 FINAL.doc


Tchentlo Lake Property 43-101 

1 

 

ITEM 1: TITLE PAGE 

 

 

 

REVIEW OF TECHNICAL INFORMATION AND 

PROPOSED EXPLORATION PROGRAM 

FOR THE TCHENTLO LAKE PROPERTY  
 

 

 

 

NORTH CENTRAL BRITISH COLUMBIA 

OMINECA MINING DIVISION 

 

 

 

 

 

Prepared for 

FAR RESOURCES LTD. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Author 

C. VON EINSIEDEL,  P.GEO. 

 

 

 

Effective Date 

JANUARY 20, 2010 

Amended 

JULY 30, 2011 



Tchentlo Lake Property 43-101 

2 

 TABLE OF CONTENTS 

 

ITEM 1:  SUMMARY           5 

 

ITEM 2:  INTRODUCTION AND TERMS OF REFERENCE       8 

 

ITEM 3:  RELIANCE ON OTHER EXPERTS         8 

 

ITEM 4:  PROPERTY DESCRIPTION AND LOCATION       9 

 

ITEM 5:  ACCESSIBILITY, CLIMATE, LOCAL RESOURCES/INFRASTRUCTURE &  

PHYSIOGRAPHY         10 

 

ITEM 6:  HISTORY OF EXPLORATION       11 

 

ITEM 7:  GEOLOGICAL SETTING AMD MINERALIZATION     12 

  

ITEM 8:  DEPOSIT TYPES 

8.1  Alkalic Porphyry Copper-Gold Deposits deposits     13  

8.2  Shear hosted Gold-Silver (± polymetallic) Vein deposits     13 

 

ITEM 9:  EXPLORATION  

9.1   Summary of exploration work carried out by Far Resources Corp. in 2010  15 

 

ITEM 10: DRILLING         15 

 

ITEM 11: SAMPLE PREPARATION, ANALYSIS AND SECURITY    15 

 

ITEM 12: DATA VERIFICATION        17 

 

ITEM 13: MINERAL PROCESSING AND METALLURGICAL TESTING    17 

 

ITEM 14: MINERAL RESOURCE ESTIMATES      17 

 

ITEM 15 -22: ADVANCED PROPERTY DISCLOSURE      n/a 

 

ITEM 23: ADJACENT PROPERTIES        18 

 

ITEM 24: OTHER RELEVENT DATA AND INFORMATION     18 

 

ITEM 25: INTERPRETATION AND CONCLUSIONS      19 



Tchentlo Lake Property 43-101 

3 

 

ITEM 26: RECOMMENDATIONS        20 

  

ITEM 27: SOURCES OF INFORMATION       22 

 

 

DATE AND SIGNATURE PAGE         23 

Certificate of Qualified Person: Carl von Einsiedel 

 

ILLUSTRATIONS (see Appendix 1)        25 

 

 

 

ITEM 15 -22: ADVANCED PROPERTY DISCLOSURE (NOT REQUIRED) 

 

 

Item 15:  Mineral Reserve Estimates  

 

Item 16:  Mining Methods  

 

Item 17:  Recovery Methods  

 

Item 18:  Project Infrastructure  

 

Item 19:  Market Studies and Contracts  

 

Item 20:  Environmental Studies, Permitting and Social or Community Impact  

 

Item 21: Capital and Operating Costs  

 

Item 22:  Economic Analysis  



Tchentlo Lake Property 43-101 

4 

APPENDIX 1: LIST OF REPORT FIGURES 

 

Fig. 1: CENTRAL BC MAP SHOWING THE MAJOR PORPHYRY DEPOSITS OF THE QUESNEL TROUGH, 

STAKED AREAS, LOCAL COMUNITIES, MAIN ACCESS ROADS AND  PARKS  

 

Fig. 2:  TCHENTLO LAKE AREA LOCATOR MAP SHOWING GENERALIZED TOPOGRAPHY, CURRENT STAKED 

AREAS, MINFILE PROSPECTS, ACCESS ROADS, PARKS AND AREAS OF RECENT STAKING (2008) 

 

Fig. 3:  TCHENTLO LAKE AREA REGIONAL GEOLOGICALMAP SHOWING MINFILE OCCURRENCES 

 

Fig. 3A: TCHENTLO LAKE AREA SURFICIAL GEOLOGICAL MAP SHOWING MINFILE OCCURRENCES  

 

Fig. 4:  TCHENTLO LAKE AREA REGIONAL AIRBORNE MAGNETIC SURVEY MAP SHOWING MINFILE 

OCCURRENCES 

 

 Fig. 5: NORTH BLOCK DIGITAL ELEVATION MAP SHOWING AIRBORNE MAGNETIC SURVEY DATA AND 

PROPOSED EXPLORATION AREAS 

 

Fig.  6: NORTH BLOCK TOPOGRAPHIC MAP SHOWING REPORTED VEIN TYPE AND PORPHYRY TYPE 

OCCURRENCES EASTFIELD RESOURCES INDATA PROPERTY 

 

Fig. 7: SOUTH BLOCK DIGITAL ELEVATION MAP SHOWING TOTAL FIELD MAGNETICS AND PROPOSED 

EXPLORATION AREAS 

 

Fig. 8: SOUTH BLOCK TOPOGRAPHIC MAP SHOWING HISTORIC PLACER DOME SOIL GEOCHEMISTRY 

RESULTS (GOLD VALUES IN PPB) AND DEFINED TARGET AREAS 

 

Fig. 9: SOUTH BLOCK TOPOGRAPHIC MAP SHOWING HISTORIC PLACER DOME SOIL GEOCHEMISTRY 

RESULTS (ANTIMONY VALUES IN PPM) AND DEFINED TARGET AREAS 

 

Fig. 10: SOUTH BLOCK TOPOGRAPHIC MAP SHOWING HISTORIC PLACER DOME SOIL GEOCHEMISTRY 

RESULTS (ARSENIC VALUES IN PPM) AND DEFINED TARGET AREAS 

 

 

 APPENDIX 2: 2010 SOIL GEOCHEMICAL SAMPLE ASSAY CERTIFICATES  (available on request) 

 

Appendix 2.1: ALS Certficate No.  VA10090449 

 

 

APPENDIX 3: HISTORIC TECHNICAL DATA  (available on request) 

 

Appendix 3.1: Compilation of Placer Dome Soil Geochemical Data ARIS report No. 20000016473 



Tchentlo Lake Property 43-101 

5 

Item 1:  Summary 

 

Far Resources Ltd. ("Far Resources") holds a 100% interest in the Tchentlo Lake Property located in 

north central BC approximately 100 kilometers northwest of Fort St. James. At the request of Far 

Resources the author has prepared a Technical Report on the Property ("the Report") to the standards 

required by National Instrument 43-101 and Form 43-101F (Standards of disclosure for mineral 

properties).  The Property is considered an early stage exploration prospect that has potential to host 

both porphyry type copper – gold mineralization and vein type gold mineralization. 

 

The Tchentlo Lake Property lies within the Quesnell Trough which is the largest copper-gold porphyry 

belt in Canada.  The majority of the known porphyry deposits within this belt are hosted by Triassic aged 

volcanic and sedimentary rocks that have been intruded by late Triassic to early Jurassic aged alkaline 

intrusive rocks.  Figure 1 and figure 2 show the extent of the porphyry belt within British Columbia and 

the location of known porphyry copper deposits in the central part of the Quesnell Trough. 

 

Far Resources initially acquired the Property by staking and direct purchase in late 2007 after Serengeti 

Resources Ltd. ("Serengetti") announced a new discovery of porphyry copper-gold mineralization at 

their wholly owned Kwanika Property located approximately 130 kilometers northwest of Ft. St. James. 

The Kwanika Discovery is located within a series of contiguous claims (comprising approximately 10,000 

hectares) staked along the Pinchi Fault Zone which is a major northwest trending structure that forms 

the western boundary of the Quesnel Trough.  Drill results published by Serengeti include DDH K-06-09 

which intersected 111.1 meters of 0.69% copper and 0.54 g/t gold; DDH K-07-15 which intersected 

0.661% copper and 0.72 g/t gold over 328.3 meters; and, K-07-20 which returned 0.76% copper and 0.91 

g/t gold over 107.7 meters.  

 

Another relevant exploration project in the project area is Eastfield Resources Indata Property (located 

approx. 20 kilometers southwest of Kwanica) which covers part of a splay fault from the main Pinchi 

Fault Zone.  According to Morton and Bailey (2006), the Indata Property hosts significant porphyry 

copper mineralization and gold bearing vein type mineralization and warrants additional exploration.  

The vein type mineralization was identified in 1989 by trenching and drill testing of gold, arsenic and 

antimony soil geochemical anomalies.    Drilling reportedly encountered polymetallic quartz and quartz 

carbonate veins with gold values ranging from several hundred ppb to 6 g/t with the most significant 

intercept being 47 g/t gold over 4 meters.  In 1995 porphyry type copper mineralization was identified 

during road construction and a 75 meter long trench (referred to as Trench 7) reportedly averaged 

0.36% copper.  Follow-up drilling in 1998 reportedly returned 145.4 meters grading 0.20% copper 

including 24.1 meters grading 0.37% copper.    

 

It is interesting to note that the Indata Property was originally believed to be underlain by rocks 

belonging to the Cache Creek Terrane (rocks older than the Takla volcanics that form the Quesnel 

Trough) which are known to host the vein type mineralization identified on the Indata Property.  

According to Morton and Bailey (2006), based on the presence of porphyry style mineralization it 



Tchentlo Lake Property 43-101 

6 

appears that the property may also cover fault splays of Takla Group rocks (Quesnel Trough) to the west 

of the main Pinchi Fault.   

 

The Tchentlo Lake Property initially comprised five claim blocks (approx. 5,000 ha.) which were acquired 

to cover various airborne magnetic highs interpreted to be possible intrusive centers localized along the 

Pinchi Fault Zone.   The two most northerly blocks (referred to as the North Block and the South Block  

comprising approx. 2,500 ha.) cover possible extensions of the rocks that host Eastfield's Indata Property 

and a former Placer Dome Property (explored for gold in 1990) located approximately 20 kilometers to 

the southeast of Indata (formerly referred to as the Lo Property)..  The claim blocks located further 

south along the main Pinchi Fault Zone, (referred to as the Pinchi South Blocks comprising approx. 2,500 

ha.) covered parts of several airborne magnetic targets.   Between 2007 and 2009 most of the ground 

along the projected southern extension of the Pinchi Fault was staked by Amarc Resources Ltd.   Figure 2 

shows the current claims held by Far Resources, the location of the Pinchi South Blocks and the location 

of the recent staking by Amarc along the Pinchi Fault Zone.  Figure 3 and figure 4 are simplified 

geological and airborne magnetic maps of the project area that show the extent of the Pinchi Fault Zone 

and the areas of high magnetic response that are interpreted as possible intrusive centers.  It is 

important to note that there is no assurance that mineralization similar to that encountered on either 

the Kwanica Property or the Indata Property will be identified on the Tchentlo Lake Property.  The 

technical information concerning these properties is included solely to demonstrate the geological 

setting of the subject property.    

 

Between 2007 and 2009 Far Resources funded a reconnaissance soil geochemical survey designed to 

evaluate the Pinchi South Blocks.  It was noted during the survey that there is extensive overburden 

covering most the Pinchi South Blocks .   The results of the initial survey were negative and based on the 

fact that Amarc allowed their claim holdings along the southern extension of the Pinchi Fault Zone to 

lapse in 2010 Far Resources elected to focus exploration work on the North and South Blocks and 

allowed the Pinchi South Blocks to lapse. 

 

During 2010 Far Resources reviewed published technical data for the Indata property and compiled the 

historic technical information available for the former Placer Dome Lo Property (now covered by the 

South Block).  Although there is no detailed surface exploration data available for the North Block 

geological maps published by Eastfield and regional airborne magnetic data (available from the BC 

Ministry of Mines) suggests the rock units that host mineralization on the Indata Property extend into 

the North Block.   

 

The historic exploration work completed by Placer Dome within the South Block includes grid based soil 

sample data (984 sample sites collected by Placer Dome from the former Lo Property) all of which is now 

covered by the South Block.  The soil sample data was digitized and entered into a GIS database to 

establish the location of anomalous sample sites relative to the boundaries of the South Block.  Several 

areas which exhibit moderately to strongly elevated gold (up to 150ppb), arsenic and antimony contents 

in soils were identified by Placer Dome, however the source of the anomalies was not determined.  The 

main anomaly (located in the southeastern part of the grid established by Placer Dome) trends 



Tchentlo Lake Property 43-101 

7 

southeast across three survey lines, is approximately 60 to 70 meters wide and is open to the south.  

The anomaly exhibits gold, arsenic and antimony values in soils which are similar to the values reported 

by Eastfield in the area of vein type gold mineralization identified on the Indata Property.  The historic 

work completed by Placer Dome needs to be verified and the soil survey grid needs to be extended to 

evaluate the anomalous area.  The available historic data suggests potential for the discovery of vein 

type gold mineralization.   Figures 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10 show available historic data for the South Block 

and adjoining property technical data for the North and South Blocks.  

 

Based on the available technical data the Tchentlo Lake Property is considered a property of merit and 

in the author's opinion additional exploration work is warranted.  Stage 1 should consist of widely 

spaced grid soil geochemical surveys on the North Block and a combined verification and grid based soil 

geochemical survey on the South Block designed to confirm the main gold in soil anomaly identified by 

Placer Dome and determine if the anomalous zone continues to the southeast.  The estimated cost of 

Stage 1 is $60,000.00. 

 

In the event that Stage 1 confirms the presence of elevated gold, arsenic and antimony values in soils or 

identifies any significant copper anomalies a follow up program of fill-in soil sampling and trenching 

would be warranted at a cost of $220,000. 

 

 



Tchentlo Lake Property 43-101 

8 

Item 2: Introduction and Terms of Reference  

 

The author was retained by the Board of Directors of Far Resources Ltd. to review historic technical 

reports related to the Tchentlo Lake Property, design and supervise a preliminary exploration program 

to verify the historic data and if warranted, outline recommendations for a follow-up exploration 

program.   Far Resources Ltd. intends to utilize this technical report in support of an application to the 

CNSX Exchange for an Initial Public Offering.  

 

This report was prepared in accordance with National Instrument 43-101.   The Qualified Person who is 

the author of this report has supervised various exploration projects in the Province of British Columbia.  

The author visited the Tchentlo Lake Property between October 1 and October 4, 2009.    The scope of 

the personal inspection of the property was to confirm road access to the project area and to supervise 

the soil sampling program completed on the Pinchi South Blocks in 2009. 

 

 

Item 3: Reliance on Other Experts 

 

The author has prepared this report based on information which is believed to be accurate but which is 

not guaranteed.  The available technical data for the Tchentlo Lake Property consists of regional 

geological information compiled by the BC Ministry of Energy and Mines and documentation regarding 

field investigations completed within the project area by various previous operators including Serengetti 

Resources, Placer Dome and Eastfields Minerals.  Sources are listed in the References section of this 

report and are cited where appropriate in the body of the report.  The technical reports listed in the 

References section of this report appear to have been completed by professional geologists without any 

promotional or misleading intent and the author has no reason to doubt the accuracy or completeness 

of the contained information.  

 

To the best of the author's knowledge at the time of writing of this report, the Tchentlo Lake Property is 

free of any liens or pending legal actions and is not subject to any underlying royalties, back-in rights, 

payments or other encumbrances other than as disclosed in section 6 of this report.  To the best of the 

author's knowledge, there are no known existing environmental liabilities to which the property is 

subject, other than the requirement to mitigate any environmental impact on the claims that may arise 

in the course of normal exploration work and the requirement to remove any camps constructed on the 

Tchentlo Lake Property or any equipment used in exploration of the claims in the event that exploration 

work is terminated. 

 

The author conducted an online title search on January 20, 2010 to verify that all of the mineral claims 

that comprise the Tchentlo Lake Property are registered in the name of Far Resources and are in good 

standing with the BC Ministry of Energy and Mines.   



Item 4: Property Description and Location 
 
Far Resources Ltd. holds a 100% interest in six mineral tenures in two separate claim blocks (referred to 
as  the  North  Block  and  the  South  Block)comprising  2,507.94.  The  North  Block  consists  of  three 
contiguous mineral tenures (1,196.15 hectares).   The South Block consists of three contiguous mineral 
tenures (1,311.75 hectares).   All of the claims which comprise the Tchentlo Lake Property were staked 
pursuant  to  the  BC Ministry  of  Energy  and Mines MTO  system  (Mineral  Titles Online  System).    The 
earliest expiry date of the claim package  is December 1st 2011. The  location of the property relative to 
other mining claims, local communities, parks and access roads is shown in figure 1.  The individual claim 
tenure numbers are  shown  in  figure 2.   The North Block  is  located on NTS Mapsheet 93N03 and  the 
South Block straddles NTS Mapsheet numbers 93N014 and 93N015. 
 
The mineral cell title claim statistics are summarized in Table 1; note that this claim information is not a 
legal title opinion but is a compilation of claims data based on the author's review of the government of 
the British Columbia Mineral Rights  inquiry website  (BC Mineral Titles January 20, 2011).   The mineral 
claims do not have to be legally surveyed since they are BC Government established cell claims.  
 
Table 1.  List of mineral tenures 
 
Tchentlo Property – North Block (1,196.19) 
 
Tenure No.  Registered Owner  Area (in ha.)  Expiry Date 
693443   Far Resources Ltd.  460.26    December 01, 2011 
693444   Far Resources Ltd.  459.88    December 01, 2011 
693463   Far Resources Ltd.  276.05    December 01, 2011 
 
Tchentlo Property –  South Block (1,311.75 ha.) 
 
Tenure No.  Registered Owner  Area (in ha.)  Expiry Date 
693483   Far Resources Ltd.  461.77    December 01, 2011 
693503   Far Resources Ltd.  462.01    December 01, 2011 
842742   Far Resources Ltd.  387.97    January 10, 2012 
 
 
The Tchentlo Lake Property is owned 100% by Far Resources Ltd. and is not subject to any royalties, back 
in rights, payments or other agreements.  Title to the claims is maintained through the performance of 
annual assessment filings and payment of required fees.   For the first three years a minimum of $4.00 
per hectare in eligible exploration expenditures must be incurred.  In subsequent years a total of $8.00 
per hectare in eligible exploration expenses must be incurred.  
 
To the best of the author's knowledge, government permits are not required to carry out the proposed 
Stage 1 Program but will be required to carry out the proposed Stage 2 exploration program and for any 
follow up diamond drilling program recommended after completion of this program.   These programs 
will require application to the Ministry of Energy and Mines for permits and the Issuer may be required 
to post security equivalent to the estimated costs of any reclamation work which will be required after 
completion of  the proposed exploration work.   To  the best of  the author's knowledge approval  from 

Tchentlo Lake Property 43‐101 

99 



Tchentlo Lake Property 43-101 

10 

local First Nations communities may also be required to carry out the proposed Stage 2 exploration 

program.  The reader is cautioned that there is no guarantee that the Issuer will be able to obtain 

approval from local First Nations. However, the author is not aware of any problems encountered by 

other junior mining companies in obtaining approval to carry out similar programs in nearby areas nor is 

the author aware of any instances where local First Nations communities have objected to exploration 

work in the general project area. 

 

To the best of the author`s knowledge the surface rights to the Property are currently held by the 

Province of British Columbia.  In the event that a significant mineralized zone is identified an application 

that includes detailed environmental impact studies must be made to the BC Land Title and Survey 

Authority (LTSA) for surface rights prior to initiation of any advanced exploration or mining activities.  

The reader is cautioned that there is no guarantee that areas for potential mine waste disposal, heap 

leach pads, or areas for processing plants will be available within the subject property.  

 

 

Item 5: Accessibility, Climate, Local Resources and Infrasture, Physiography  

Access to the property is by road from Fort St. James along the Tachie, Leo Creek and Leo-Tchentlo 

logging roads.   The access roads are loose surfaced and in excellent condition at the time of the writers 

property visit in October of 2009.  The nearest BC Highway grid is approximately 50 kilometers to the 

south (ie. of the North Block).  

 

The Property is on the Nechako Plateau which is characterized by rolling terrain varying from 900 to 

1,500 meters above sea level.   The topography has a generally north westerly trend and is dominated 

by areas of low relief.  Lowland areas are swamp filled or covered by thick glacial deposits resulting in 

minimal bedrock exposure.  The landscape would offer numerous options for tailings containment and 

there are numerous water sources available.   

 

The climate is transitional between maritime and continental and is considered comparable to Fort St.  

James.  Environment Canada measured at Fort St. James shows an average of 80 millimeters annual 

precipitation.  Mean seasonal temperature highs for July are 21.5 degrees Celsius and -9.1 degrees 

Celsius for January.  Mean temperature lows are 7.9 and -18.3 degrees Celsius respectively. 

 

The Property is below timberline with the forest varying from open to heavy underbrush.  Timber in the 

area is dominated by spruce, balsam fir and pine. Underbrush is typically slide alder, huckleberry and 

devils club. 

 

Fort St. James is a resource-based community of about 5,000 people and can provide all required labour, 

mechanized equipment and supplies required for exploration. 

 



Tchentlo Lake Property 43-101 

11 

Item 6: Exploration History 

 

The Tchentlo Lake Property initially comprised five claim blocks (approx. 5,000 ha.) which were acquired 

to cover various airborne magnetic highs interpreted to be possible intrusive centers localized along the 

Pinchi Fault Zone.   The two most northerly blocks (referred to as the North Block and the South Block  

comprising approx. 2,500 ha.) cover possible extensions of the rocks that host Eastfield's Indata Property 

and a former Placer Dome Property (explored for gold in 1990) located approximately 20 kilometers to 

the southeast of Indata (formerly referred to as the Lo Property)..  The claim blocks located further 

south along the main Pinchi Fault Zone, (referred to as the Pinchi South Blocks comprising approx. 2,500 

ha.) covered parts of several airborne magnetic targets.   Between 2007 and 2009 most of the ground 

along the projected southern extension of the Pinchi Fault was staked by Amarc Resources Ltd.   Figure 2 

shows the current claims held by Far Resources, the location of the Pinchi South Blocks and the location 

of the recent staking by Amarc along the Pinchi Fault Zone.  Figure 3 and figure 4 are simplified 

geological and airborne magnetic maps of the project area that show the extent of the Pinchi Fault Zone 

and the areas of high magnetic response that are interpreted as possible intrusive centers.   

 

In 2009 Far Resources funded a reconnaissance soil geochemical survey designed to evaluate the Pinchi 

South Blocks.  It was noted during the survey that there is extensive overburden covering most the 

Pinchi South Blocks .   The results of the initial survey were negative and based on the fact that Amarc 

allowed their claim holdings along the southern extension of the Pinchi Fault Zone to lapse in 2010 Far 

Resources elected to focus exploration work on the North and South Blocks and allowed the Pinchi 

South Blocks to lapse.  During 2010 Far Resources reviewed published technical data for the Indata 

property and compiled the historic technical information available for the former Placer Dome Lo 

Property (now covered by the South Block).  Although there is no detailed surface exploration data 

available for the North Block geological maps published by Eastfield and regional airborne magnetic data 

(available from the BC Ministry of Mines) suggests the rock units that host mineralization on the Indata 

Property extend into the North Block.   

 

The historic exploration work completed by Placer Dome within the South Block includes grid based soil 

sample data (984 sample sites collected by Placer Dome from the former Lo Property) all of which is now 

covered by the South Block.  The soil sample data was digitized and entered into a GIS database to 

establish the location of anomalous sample sites relative to the boundaries of the South Block.  Several 

areas which exhibit moderately to strongly elevated gold (up to 150ppb), arsenic and antimony contents 

in soils were identified by Placer Dome, however the source of the anomalies was not determined.  The 

main gold anomaly (located in the southeastern part of the grid established by Placer Dome) trends 

southeast across three survey lines, is approximately 60 to 70 meters wide and is open to the south.  

Anomalous arsenic and antimony responses extend the anomalous zone for an additional 300 meters to 

the northwest.  The anomaly exhibits gold, arsenic and antimony values in soils which are similar to the 

values reported by Eastfield in the area of vein type gold mineralization identified on the Indata 

Property.   



Tchentlo Lake Property 43-101 

12 

Item 7: Geological Setting and Mineralization 

 

According to Morton and Bailey (2006) the Tchentlo Lake Property lies west of and along splay faults 

related to the contact of two major geological terranes, the Quesnel Terrane (or Quesnel Trough) and 

the Cache Creek Terrane to the west.   The contact between these terranes is marked by the Pinchi Fault 

Zone, a high angle reverse fault regional extent and associated splay faults.  

 

Cache Creek strata to the west has been thrust over Takla strata to the east. The Quesnel Terrane 

consists of mafic to intermediate volcanic rocks of the Upper Triassic - Lower Jurassic Takla Group 

intruded by a composite batholith, the Hogem Batholith with intrusive phases, which range in age from 

Lower Jurassic to Cretaceous. 

 

The Cache Creek Terrane in the region comprises mainly argillaceous metasedimentary rocks intruded 

by diorite to granodiorite plutons which may be part of the, pre-Triassic age or Lower Cretaceous age 

and by small ultramafic stocks. Some of these latter intrusions may be of ophiolitic origin.   A northwest-

striking fault bounded block adjacent to the Quesnel Terrane is underlain largely by limestone within 

which a sliver of mafic and intermediate volcanic rocks is preserved. Both the limestone and volcanic 

rocks are considered here to be part of the Cache Creek Group but the evidence for this is equivocal as 

similar strata occur within the Takla Group elsewhere in the region.  

 

However, metamorphic grade of the Takla Group volcanic rocks is rarely higher than zeolite facies of 

regional metamorphism while that of the volcanic rocks underlying the Indata property is of greenschist 

grade, suggesting that these strata are of Cache Creek affinity, not Takla Group. This having been said 

the proximity of the Indata claims to a major thrust fault may locally have raised the metamorphic grade 

as has been demonstrated further to south along the Pinchi fault at Pinchi Lake where metamorphic 

grade increases to blue schist grade at the fault. 

 

The dominant structural style of the Takla Group is that of extensional faulting, mainly to the northwest. 

In general Takla Group rocks are tilted but not folded. In contrast, strata of the Cache Creek Group have 

been folded and metamorphosed to lower to middle greenschist facies and, in argillaceous rocks, 

preserve a penetrative deformational fabric. However, extensional faults are also common within the 

Cache Creek Group and probably represent the effects of post-collision uplift. In addition to high angle 

extensional faults, thrust faults are inferred within the Cache Creek Group. 

 

7.1 Mineralization identified within the Tchentlo Lake Property 

 

The British Columbia Minfile mineral occurrence database indicates that the South Block covers a known 

mineral occurrence referred to as the Lo Prospect (Minfile no. 92F392).   

 

The Lo Prospect is described in a report submitted to the BC Ministry of Mines for assessment credit by 

Placer Dome (Aris Report No.20037).    According to Placer Dome several areas which exhibit moderately 

to strongly elevated gold (up to 150ppb), arsenic and antimony contents in soils were identified.  The 

main gold anomaly (located in the southeastern part of the grid established by Placer Dome) trends 



Tchentlo Lake Property 43-101 

13 

southeast across three survey lines, is approximately 60 to 70 meters wide and is open to the south.   

Arsenic and antimony anomalies extend for an additional 300 meters to the north along strike of the 

gold anomaly.  The anomaly exhibits gold, arsenic and antimony values in soils which are similar to the 

values reported by Eastfield in the area of vein type gold mineralization identified on the Indata 

Property.  The historic work completed by Placer Dome needs to be verified and the soil survey grid 

needs to be extended to evaluate the anomalous area.  It is also noted by Placer Dome that 

hydrothermal alteration including local quartz-carbonate-mariposite (listwanite) alteration was 

identified in the southeastern part of the grid.  The source of the anomaly was not determined. 

 

The available historic data suggests potential for the discovery of vein type gold mineralization.   Figures 

5, 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10 show available historic data for the South Block and adjoining property technical 

data for the North and South Blocks.  

 

 

 

 

Item 8: Deposit Types 

 

There are two types of mineral deposits that occur in the area of the Tchentlo Lake Property:  

 

1) Alkalic and calc-alkaline porphyry copper – gold deposits ; and  

 

2) Shear hosted gold-silver bearing quartz and carbonate veins 

 

Alkalic and calc-alkaline porphyry copper – gold deposits  

Alkalic and calc-alkaline porphyry copper-gold deposits occur throughout the length of the Quesnel 

Trough. These deposits occur either within intrusive rocks or in volcanic and sedimentary rocks 

associated with the intrusive bodies.  These types of deposits are common in the central part of the 

Quesnel Trough comprising over 50% of the reported mineral occurrences.  In these deposits 

chalcopyrite and other copper minerals, pyrite and molybdenite occur in low grade fracture fillings and 

in disseminated form.  Gold may be a minor but still significant component. 

These types of deposits tend to occupy brecciated and faulted zones related to extensively altered 

subvolcanic intrusions and their volcanic host rocks. Alteration patterns for alkalic type porphyry 

deposits are distinctly different from those of classic calcalkaline deposits which are characterized by 

concentric phyllic-argillic-propylitic zones.  The alkalic deposits typically have a central potassic-or sodic 

plagioclase zone which passes outward into a propylitic zone. These often overlap and are overprinted 

by retrograde metasomatic alteration.  Magnetite breccias and disseminations are associated with the 

potassic alteration zone, which hosts most of the copper and gold mineralization. Disseminated pyrite 

and minor copper mineralization mantle the propylitic alteration zone. 

 

Shear Hosted Gold-Silver (± polymetallic) Vein deposits  



Tchentlo Lake Property 43-101 

14 

 

The best examples of vein type mineralization in the Tchentlo Lake area are the gold bearing veins 

identified on the Indata Property.  The mineralization is similar to most shear related lode gold deposits. 

Mineralization is epigenetic in nature and formed from structurally focussed hydrothermal fluids, which 

create a system of low sulphide quartz veins, veinlets or stockworks. These deposits are normally 

associated with major regional scale structural "breaks" or faults. Deposits are often located in or near a 

plutonic body. Vein systems often occur in the central parts of discrete shear zones within a larger 

regional fault, where rotational or simple shear strains predominate. Vein systems are tabular, sub 

vertical structures of varying thickness and lateral extent; where typical thickness is measured in metres 

and the strike-dip dimensions are measured in tens or hundreds of metres.  The economically viable part 

of the vein system may be considerably smaller than the whole shear system; often forming discreet 

shoots of mineralization. Precious metal mineralization often occurs as coarse individual grains, 

occasionally making this type of deposit difficult to evaluate, due to a "nugget effect" on sample 

analyses.  

 

Quartz veins usually have sharp contacts with wallrocks and exhibit a variety of textures, including 

massive, ribboned or banded and stockworks with anastamosing gashes and dilations. Textures may be 

modified or destroyed by subsequent deformation. Wallrock alteration is characterized by silicification, 

pyritization and potassium metasomatism generally occurring adjacent to veins (usually within a metre) 

within a broader zone of carbonate alteration, extending up to tens of metres from the veins. Quartz-

carbonate altered rock (listwanite) and pyrite are often the most prominent alteration minerals in the 

wallrock. Fuchsite, sericite, tourmaline and scheelite are common where veins are associated with felsic 

to intermediate intrusions.  

Ore mineralogy can include: gold, silver, arsenopyrite chalcopyrite, pyrite, sphalerite, tetrahedrite, 

argentite, pyrrhotite, galena, tellurides, scheelite, and bismuth.   Gangue mineralogy includes: quartz 

and carbonate (calcite, dolomite, ankerite or siderite), hematite-limonite, mariposite (fuchsite), sericite, 

muscovite, chlorite, tourmaline, graphite.  

 

Typical geophysical signature: Associated structures may be defined by ground magnetic, very low 

frequency or electromagnetic surveys.  Airborne surveys may identify prospective regional-scale major 

structures.  Recent developments in 3D IP surveying technology appear to provide a viable method for 

assessing the variability in chargeability and resistivity response.  The variability may reflect 

mineralogical changes within mineralized zones or structures and may aid in selection of drill targets.  

 

 

 

 



Tchentlo Lake Property 43-101 

15 

Item 9: Exploration 

 

Between 2007 and 2009 Far Resources acquired the Tchentlo Lake Property and funded a 

reconnaissance soil geochemical survey designed to evaluate the Pinchi South Blocks.  It was noted 

during the survey that there is extensive overburden covering most the Pinchi South Blocks .   The 

results of the initial survey were negative and based on the fact that Amarc Resources allowed their 

claim holdings along the southern extension of the Pinchi Fault Zone to lapse in 2010 Far Resources 

elected to focus exploration work on the North and South Blocks and allowed the Pinchi South Blocks to 

lapse. 

 

During 2010 Far Resources reviewed published technical data for the Indata property and compiled the 

historic technical information available for the former Placer Dome Lo Property (now covered by the 

South Block).  Although there is no detailed surface exploration data available for the North Block 

geological maps published by Eastfield and regional airborne magnetic data (available from the BC 

Ministry of Mines) suggests the rock units that host mineralization on the Indata Property extend into 

the North Block.  The available historic data suggests potential for the discovery of both porphyry 

copper type mineralization and vein type gold mineralization.   Figures 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10 show 

available historic data for the South Block and adjoining property technical data for the North and South 

Blocks.  

 

 

Item 10: Drilling 

 

No drilling was carried out by on the Tchentlo Lake Property by Far Resources Ltd.  There has been no 

historic drilling on the Tchentlo Lake Property. 

 

Item 11: Sample preparation, analysis and security 

The published technical reports which detail previous exploration work on the Tchentlo Lake Property 

indicate that standard QA and QC procedures were implemented by the laboratories that analyzed the 

samples and that the variability of all reported analyses are within acceptable industry standards. 

The objective of sampling program carried out in 2009 by Far Resources was to assess the effectiveness 

of soil geochemical surveys in areas of thick overburden along the southern projection of the Pinchi 

Fault Zone.  Samples were collected at 25 meter intervals along two widely spaced, east-west profile 

lines across a strong magnetic high identified from BC Ministry of mines airborne magnetic survey data.    

Samples were collected at each station from depths between 20cm and 50cm using conventional soil 

augers.  All samples were placed in Kraft paper sample bags, sealed and labelled with a unique sample 

numbers. The location of each sample was noted, in UTM coordinates (NAD 83 Zone 10), with the aid of 

a hand-held GPS (Garmin 60Cx; accuracy ±5m).  The samples were then shipped by the author to the ALS 

Chemex laboratory in North Vancouver. See Section 15 for details on analytical methods. 



Tchentlo Lake Property 43-101 

16 

The samples collected during the 2009 program were collected by independent geologists and field 

technicians.  During the field program samples were stored in vehicles that were used in completion of 

the field work and were transported to the authors residence in Mission BC.   

All samples collected during the 2009 exploration program were submitted to ALS Chemex, of North 

Vancouver, for analysis.  The -80 micrometer mesh sieved fraction of the soil samples was dissolved in 

an aqua regia solution (3:1 mixture of hydrochloric and nitric acid) and analyzed for a series of elements 

by ICP-AES.  The Elements analyzed for and the detection limits are listed in Table 12.5.1.  ALS Chemex 

employs standard QA and QC protocols on all sample analyses including inserting one blank, reference 

standard and duplicate analysis in every twenty samples analyzed.  No additional QA and QC procedures 

were implemented as part of the program.  Sample Certificates from the 2010 exploration program are 

included in Appendix 2.   

 

In the authors opinion the sample security employed by the field personnel involved in the sample 

collection and the sample preparation and analytical procedures employed by ALS Chemex are adequate 

for the exploration program carried out by Far Resources Ltd. on the Tchentlo Lake Property.  

 

 

Table 12.5.1 Elements analyzed by ICP-AES and their lower detection limit 

Element LDL Element LDL Element LDL Element LDL Element LDL 

Cd 0.5 ppm K 0.01 % Ni 1.0 ppm Al 0.01 % Zn 2 ppm 

Co 1.0 ppm La 10 ppm P 10 ppm Th 20 ppm As 2 ppm 

Cr 1.0 ppm Mg 0.01 % Pb 2.0 ppm Ti 0.01 % B 10 ppm 

Cu 1.0 ppm Ag 0.2 ppm S 0.01 % Tl 10 ppm Ba 10 ppm 

Fe 0.01 % Mn 5.0 ppm Sb 2 ppm U 10 ppm Be 0.5 ppm 

Ga 10 ppm Mo 1.0 ppm Sc 1 ppm V 1 ppm Bi 2 ppm 

Hg 1.0 ppm Na 0.01% Sr 1 ppm W 10 ppm Ca 0.01 % 

 

ALS Vancouver is in compliance for the requirements of ISO 9001:2000 through February 12, 2011 (ALS 

Laboratory Group, 2010).  ALS Vancouver is accredited through the Standards Council of Canada (SCC) 

for Metallic Ores and Products Mineral Analysis testing for several techniques including Fire Assay with 

an Atomic Absorption (AA) finish, Fire Assay with a gravimetric finish and ICP-AES using a four acid 

digestion.   

 



Tchentlo Lake Property 43-101 

17 

Item 12: Data Verification 

The present Tchentlo Lake Property covers the soil geochemical survey grids completed by Placer Dome 

in 1990.  Placer Dome reported anomalous soil sample results and anomalous rock sample results from 

sampling completed within an area referred to as the Lo Prospect  Area.  (Figures 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10 

show available historic data for the South Block and adjoining property technical data for the North and 

South Blocks).  

The soil survey completed by Placer Dome consisted of 984 samples collected at 20 meter intervals 

along 100 meter spaced, east-west oriented grid lines.   The area of the Placer Dome grid is completely 

within the claims that form the South Block. The compilation work carried out by Far Resource Corp. 

involved geo-referencing the historic technical maps from Placer Dome, digitizing the UTM locations of 

the reported soil sample sites and entering the historic assay data into a GIS database.   

According to Placer Dome samples were collected from either the C Horizon or the transition zone 

between the B and C horizon using mattocks at depths ranging from 0.5 to 0.7 meters.  Samples were 

dried and sieved to minus 80 mesh and analyzed at the Placer Dome Inc. laboratory.  The Placer Dome 

facility employed techniques similar to those employed by certified laboratories however it is not known 

if the Placer Dome facility would meet current ISO 9000 standards for certification.  It is important to 

note that the anomalous areas identified by Placer Dome have not yet been confirmed by verification 

sampling.  This verification work will be an important component of the proposed Stage 1 Exploration 

program. 

 

Item 13: Mineral Processing and Metallurgical Testing 

There is no mineral processing or metallurgical testing data available from the Tchentlo Lake Property. 

 

Item 14: Mineral Resource and Mineral Reserve Estimates 

There is no mineral resource compliant with CIM Standards on Mineral Resources and Reserves (CIM, 

2000) and therefore no NI 43-101 compliant resource for the Tchentlo Lake Property. 

 

Item 15 to Item 22:  

The Tchentlo lake Property is an early stage exploration project.  Disclosure requirements for advanced 

Property technical reports do not apply. 

  

 



Tchentlo Lake Property 43-101 

18 

Item 23: Adjacent Properties 

Far Resources acquired the Tchentlo Lake Property by staking and direct purchase in late 2007 after 

Serengeti Resources Ltd. ("Serengeti") announced a new discovery of porphyry copper-gold 

mineralization at their wholly owned Kwanika Property located approximately 130 kilometers north of 

Ft. St. James. The Kwanika Discovery is located within a series of contiguous claims (comprising 

approximately 10,000 hectares) staked along the Pinchi Fault Zone which is a major northwest trending 

structure that forms the western boundary of the Quesnel Trough.  Drill results published by Serengeti 

include DDH K-06-09 which intersected 111.1 meters of 0.69% copper and 0.54 g/t gold; DDH K-07-15 

which intersected 0.661% copper and 0.72 g/t gold over 328.3 meters; and, K-07-20 which returned 

0.76% copper and 0.91 g/t gold over 107.7 meters.  

 

The Tchentlo Lake Property consists of two separate claim blocks localized along a splay fault from the 

main Pinchi Fault Zone approximately 25 kilometers south of the Kwanica Discovery.  Regional geological 

maps published by the BC Ministry of Energy and Mines (BCMEM) show that the claim area covers the 

transition zone along the Pinchi Fault that separates the Quesnel Trough and the Cache Creek Terrane.  

The North Block adjoins the southeastern boundary of Eastfield Resources Indata Property. 

 

Eastfield Resources Indata Property (located approx. 20 kilometers southwest of Kwanica) covers part of 

the same splay fault from the main Pinchi Fault Zone.  According to Morton and Bailey (2006), the Indata 

Property hosts significant porphyry copper mineralization and gold bearing vein type mineralization and 

warrants additional exploration.  The vein type mineralization was identified in 1989 by trenching and 

drill testing of gold, arsenic and antimony soil geochemical anomalies.    Drilling reportedly encountered 

polymetallic quartz and quartz carbonate veins with gold values ranging from several hundred ppb to 6 

g/t with the most significant intercept being 47 g/t gold over 4 meters.  In 1995 porphyry type copper 

mineralization was identified during road construction and a 75 meter long trench (referred to as Trench 

7) reportedly averaged 0.36% copper.  Follow-up drilling in 1998 reportedly returned 145.4 meters 

grading 0.20% copper including 24.1 meters grading 0.37% copper.    

 

It is important to note that there is no assurance that mineralization similar to that encountered on 

either the Kwanica Property or the Indata Property will be identified on the Tchentlo Lake Property.  

The technical information concerning these properties is included solely to demonstrate the 

geological setting of the subject property.    

 

 

 

Item 24: Other relevant data and information  

There is no other relevant data or information concerning the Tchentlo Lake Property. 

 



Tchentlo Lake Property 43-101 

19 

Item 25: Interpretation and Conclusions 

 

The Tchentlo Lake Property consists of two separate claim blocks (referred to as the North and South 

Blocks) localized along a splay fault from the main Pinchi Fault Zone.  Regional geological maps 

published by the BC Ministry of Energy and Mines (BCMEM) show that the claim area covers the 

transition zone along the Pinchi Fault that separates the Quesnel Trough and the Cache Creek Terrane.  

The North Block adjoins the southeastern boundary of Eastfield Resources Indata Property and the 

South Block covers a gold prospect referred to as the Lo Prospect which was formerly owned by Placer 

Dome . 

 

During 2010 Far Resources reviewed published technical data for the Indata property and compiled the 

historic technical information available for the former Placer Dome Lo Property (now covered by the 

South Block).  Although there is no detailed surface exploration data available for the North Block 

geological maps published by Eastfield and regional airborne magnetic data (available from the BC 

Ministry of Mines) suggests the rock units that host mineralization on the Indata Property extend into 

the North Block.   

 

The historic exploration work completed by Placer Dome within the South Block includes grid based soil 

sample data (984 sample sites collected by Placer Dome from the former Lo Property) all of which is now 

covered by the South Block.  The soil sample data was digitized and entered into a GIS database to 

establish the location of anomalous sample sites relative to the boundaries of the South Block.  Several 

areas which exhibit moderately to strongly elevated gold (up to 150ppb), arsenic and antimony contents 

in soils were identified by Placer Dome, however the source of the anomalies was not determined.  The 

main gold anomaly (located in the southeastern part of the grid established by Placer Dome) trends 

southeast across three survey lines, is approximately 60 to 70 meters wide and is open to the south.  

Anomalous arsenic and antimony responses extend the anomalous zone for an additional 300 meters to 

the northwest.  The anomaly exhibits gold, arsenic and antimony values in soils which are similar to the 

values reported by Eastfield in the area of vein type gold mineralization identified on the Indata 

Property.   

 

Based on the available technical data the Tchentlo Lake Property is considered a property of merit and 

in the author's opinion additional exploration work is warranted.   

 

 

 

 

 

 



Tchentlo Lake Property 43-101 

20 

Item 26: Recommendations  

 

The Tchentlo Lake Property has potential to host porphyry copper – gold and vein type gold 

mineralization.  The North Block is considered an early stage prospect and warrants a preliminary soil 

geochemical survey.  The South Block has been the focus of a previous soil geochemistry survey by 

Placer Dome. 

 

The historic work completed by Placer Dome within the present South Block needs to be verified and 

the soil survey grid needs to be extended to evaluate the overall extent of the anomalous area.  The 

available historic data suggests potential for the discovery of vein type gold mineralization.   

 

Stage 1 should consist of widely spaced grid soil geochemical surveys on the North Block and a 

combined verification and grid based soil geochemical survey on the South Block designed to confirm 

the main gold in soil anomaly identified by Placer Dome and determine if the anomalous zone continues 

to the southeast.  The estimated cost of Stage 1 is $60,000.00. 

 

 In the event that Stage 1 confirms the presence of elevated gold, arsenic and antimony values in soils or 

identifies any significant copper anomalies a follow up program of fill-in soil sampling and trenching 

would be warranted at a cost of $220,000. 

 

 

Proposed Stage 1 Exploration Program 

Engineering and project supervision, reports   $   7,500 

 

Field costs, vehicle rentals           2,500 

 

Crew travel expenses, accommodation          5,000 

 

Reconnaissance soil surveys (North Block)  

-soil sample collection for 400 samples        15,000 

-soil sample assays            5,000 

 

Detail soil survey grids (South Block) 

-soil sample collection for 400 samples        15,000 

-soil sample assays            5,000 

 

Contingency             5,000 

        ________ 

Total estimated cost of Stage 1     $  60,000 

 

 



Tchentlo Lake Property 43-101 

21 

Proposed Stage 2 Exploration Program 

Engineering, permitting and project supervision, reports  $  25,000 

 

Field costs, vehicle rentals accommodation       25,000 

 

Geological mapping, supervision of trenching program      75,000 

-collection of fill-in soil samples as required 

 

Trenching program  

-allowance for an estimated 50 hours of trenching      75,000 

 

Contingency @ 10%          20,000 

        ________ 

Total estimated cost of Stage 2     $220,000 

 

 

 

 



Tchentlo Lake Property 43-101 

22 

Item 27: Sources of information 

ALS Laboratory Group, 2010. ALS Website showing ISO 9001:2000 accreditation, 

http://www.alsglobal.com/mineralQualityAssurance.aspx. Accessed April 19 2010. 

BC Ministry of Energy and Mines online database and BCMEM Minfile Listing:     

http://www.empr.gov.bc.ca/Mining/Geoscience/geoData/Pagers/default.aspx 

 

Maheux, P.J., Assessment Report on Geological and Geochemical Surveys.  Lo-1-11 Claims, Omineca 

Mining Division, Prepared for Placer Dome Inc.  Aris Report No.20037 

 

Morton, J.W., and Bailey, D., (2006), Summary Report on the Indata Property with Recommendations for 

Continuing Exploration., Prepared for Redzone Resources Ltd. and Eastfield Resources Ltd. 

 

Technical Information regarding Serengeti Resources Kwanika Property: 

http://www.serengetiresources.com/s/Kwanika.asp 

 

 



Tchentlo Lake Property 43-101 

23 

 DATE AND SIGNATURE PAGE 

CERTIFICATE OF QUALIFIED PERSON, CARL A. VON EINSIEDEL   

I, Carl A. von Einsiedel, PGeo.  hereby certify that: 

 

1)  I am an independent consulting geologist with a business address at #3206-610 Granville St., 

Vancouver, British Columbia V6C-3T3. 

 

2)  I am a graduate of Carleton University, Ottawa, Ontario (1989) with a B.Sc. in Geology. 

 

3)  I am a registered Professional Geologist in good standing with the Association of Professional 

Engineers and Geoscientists of British Columbia (APEGBC – License no. 21474).  

 

4)  I have worked as a geologist for a total of 21 years since graduation from university. I have work 

experience in most parts of Canada, as well as the United States and Mexico.   I have intrusión 

related gold deposit exploration experience in British Columbia and the Yukon.  

 

5)  I have read the definition of "qualified person" set out in National Instrument 43-101 ("NI 43-

101") and certify that by reason of my education, affiliation with a professional association (as 

defined in NI 43-101) and past relevant work experience, I fulfill the requirement to be a 

"qualified person" for the purposes of NI 43-101. 

 

6)  I am responsible for all sections of the technical report titled "43-101 REVIEW OF TECHNICAL 

INFORMATION AND PROPOSED EXPLORATION PROGRAM FOR THE TCHENTLO LAKE PROPERTY" 

Far Resources Ltd. dated July 30, 2011  (the "Technical Report") relating to the Tchentlo Lake 

Property. I visited the property between October 1 and October 4, 2009. 

 

7)  I have not had prior involvement with the property that is the subject of the Technical Report. 

 

8)  I am not aware of any material fact or material change with respect to the subject matter of the 

Technical Report that is not reflected in the Technical Report, the omission to disclose which 

makes the Technical Report misleading. 

 

9)  I am fully independent of the issuer applying all of the tests in section 1.4 of National Instrument 

43-101 

 

10)  I have read National Instrument 43-101 and Form 43-101F1, and the Technical Report has been 

prepared in compliance with that instrument and form. 

 

11)  I consent to the public filing of the Technical Report with the Ontario Securities Commission, the 

Alberta Securities Commission, and the British Columbia Securities Commission, any stock 

exchange and any other regulatory authority and any publication by them for regulatory 

purposes, including SEDAR filings and electronic publication in the public company files on their 

websites accessible by the public, of the Technical Report and to extracts from, or a summary of,  

the Technical Report in the written disclosure being filed, by Far Resources Ltd., in public 

information documents so being filed including any offering memorandum, preliminary 

prospectus and final prospectus provided that I am given the opportunity to read the written 





Tchentlo Lake Property 43-101 

25 

APPENDIX 1: LIST OF REPORT FIGURES 

 

Fig. 1: CENTRAL BC MAP SHOWING THE MAJOR PORPHYRY DEPOSITS OF THE QUESNEL TROUGH, 

STAKED AREAS, LOCAL COMUNITIES, MAIN ACCESS ROADS AND  PARKS  

 

Fig. 2:  TCHENTLO LAKE AREA LOCATOR MAP SHOWING GENERALIZED TOPOGRAPHY, CURRENT STAKED 

AREAS, MINFILE PROSPECTS, ACCESS ROADS, PARKS AND AREAS OF RECENT STAKING (2008) 

 

Fig. 3:  TCHENTLO LAKE AREA REGIONAL GEOLOGICALMAP SHOWING MINFILE OCCURRENCES 

 

Fig. 3A: TCHENTLO LAKE AREA SURFICIAL GEOLOGICAL MAP SHOWING MINFILE OCCURRENCES  

 

Fig. 4:  TCHENTLO LAKE AREA REGIONAL AIRBORNE MAGNETIC SURVEY MAP SHOWING MINFILE 

OCCURRENCES 

 

 Fig. 5: NORTH BLOCK DIGITAL ELEVATION MAP SHOWING AIRBORNE MAGNETIC SURVEY DATA AND 

PROPOSED EXPLORATION AREAS 

 

Fig.  6: NORTH BLOCK TOPOGRAPHIC MAP SHOWING REPORTED VEIN TYPE AND PORPHYRY TYPE 

OCCURRENCES EASTFIELD RESOURCES INDATA PROPERTY 

 

Fig. 7: SOUTH BLOCK DIGITAL ELEVATION MAP SHOWING TOTAL FIELD MAGNETICS AND PROPOSED 

EXPLORATION AREAS 

 

Fig. 8: SOUTH BLOCK TOPOGRAPHIC MAP SHOWING HISTORIC PLACER DOME SOIL GEOCHEMISTRY 

RESULTS (GOLD VALUES IN PPB) AND DEFINED TARGET AREAS 

 

Fig. 9: SOUTH BLOCK TOPOGRAPHIC MAP SHOWING HISTORIC PLACER DOME SOIL GEOCHEMISTRY 

RESULTS (ANTIMONY VALUES IN PPM) AND DEFINED TARGET AREAS 

 

Fig. 10: SOUTH BLOCK TOPOGRAPHIC MAP SHOWING HISTORIC PLACER DOME SOIL GEOCHEMISTRY 

RESULTS (ARSENIC VALUES IN PPM) AND DEFINED TARGET AREAS 

 

 


























'