b'

















































Longacre 43-101 dated may 30, 2012 

1 

  
 
 
REVIEW OF TECHNICAL INFORMATION AND 
PROPOSED EXPLORATION PROGRAM 
FOR THE CHRISTA - AURA PROPERTY  
 
 
 
SOUTH WESTERN BRITISH COLUMBIA 
 
 
 
 
 
Prepared for 
LONGACRE RESOURCES INC. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Author 
C. VON EINSIEDEL,  P.GEO. 
 
 
 
 
 
Effective Date 
MAY 30, 2012 



Longacre 43-101 dated may 30, 2012 

2 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
ITEM 1:  SUMMARY           5 
 
ITEM 2:  INTRODUCTION           7 
 
ITEM 3:  RELIANCE ON OTHER EXPERTS         7 
 
ITEM 4:  PROPERTY DESCRIPTION AND LOCATION       8 
 
ITEM 5:  ACCESSIBILITY, CLIMATE, LOCAL RESOURCES, INFRASTRUCTURE &   10 

PHYSIOGRAPHY  
 
ITEM 6:  HISTORY         11 
 
ITEM 7:  GEOLOGICAL SETTING AND MINERALIZATION     13 
  
ITEM 8:  DEPOSIT TYPES         15 
 
ITEM 9:  EXPLORATION         17 
 
ITEM 10: DRILLING         21 
 
ITEM 11: SAMPLE PREPARATION, ANALYSIS AND SECURITY    21 
 
ITEM 12: DATA VERIFICATION        21 
 
ITEM 13: MINERAL PROCESSING AND METALLURGICAL TESTING    22 
 
ITEM 14: MINERAL RESOURCE ESTIMATES      22 
 
ITEM 15 -22: ADVANCED PROPERTY DISCLOSURE      n/a 
 
ITEM 23: ADJACENT PROPERTIES        22 
 
ITEM 24: OTHER RELEVENT DATA AND INFORMATION     23 
 
ITEM 25: INTERPRETATION AND CONCLUSIONS      23 
 
ITEM 26: RECOMMENDATIONS        24 
  



Longacre 43-101 dated may 30, 2012 

3 

ITEM 27: REFERENCES         25 
 
DATE AND SIGNATURE PAGE (CERTIFICATE OF QUALIFIED PERSON)    26 
 
 
APPENDIX 1: LIST OF REPORT FIGURES 
 
Fig. 1 Regional Locator Map Showing Project Location, Access Roads, Existing Claims and Parks  

(1:500,000 scale) 
 
Fig.2 Regional Geological Map Showing Minfile Occurrences (1:500,000 scale) 

Fig.3 Project Area Topographic Map Showing Mineral Tenures and Current Staking (1:100,000 scale) 

Fig.4 Index Map Showing Historic Noranda and Clifton Resources Claims (1:100,000 scale) 

Fig.5 Compilation Map Showing 2011 Geophysical Survey, Soil Sampling and Historic Geochemical 
Sampling by Noranda and Clifton Resources  (1:20,000 scale) 

 
Fig.6 Detail Topographic Map Showing 2011 and Historic Geochemical Sampling (Gold) and Location 

of 2011 Rock Sampling (1:4,000 scale) 
 
Fig 7 Detail Topographic Map:  2011 Rock Sample Locations and ID Numbers (1:1,000 scale) 

Fig 8 Detail Topographic Map:  2011 Rock Sample Locations and Assay Data (Au) (1:1,000 scale) 

Fig 9:  Map view of the geophysical grid at the Aura project showing the interpreted chargeability at a 
depth of 15 m below topography. The near-surface chargeability high (red body near centre of 
grid) corresponds well with the mineralized outcrop mapped at the surface (black dashed line).  

 
Fig 10: Cross-sections along survey line 7200E for resistivity (top panel) and chargeability (bottom 

panel). View looking to the southwest. Regions of anomalously high and low resistivity / 
chargeability are identified. The locations of inferred contacts are shown as dashed lines. 

 
 
APPENDIX 2: 2011 SOIL AND ROCK SAMPLE ASSAY DATA  (available on request) 

Appendix 2.1:  2011 Soil and Rock Geochemistry Certificates va11191811 

Appendix 2.2:  2011 Soil and Rock Geochemistry Certificates va11196113 

Appendix 2.3:  2011 Soil and Rock Geochemistry Certificates va11196114 

Appendix 2.4:  2011 Soil and Rock Geochemistry Certificates va11203225 



Longacre 43-101 dated may 30, 2012 

4 

TECHNICAL DATA APPENDICES AVAILABLE ON REQUEST 

 

APPENDIX 3: HISTORIC TECHNICAL DATA  (available on request) 

Appendix 3.1:  Historic ARIS no. 10868 - 607 soil samples 

Appendix 3.2:  Historic ARIS no. 14362 - 9 soil samples 

Appendix 3.3:  Historic ARIS no. 19446 - 424 soil samples 

Appendix 3.4:  Historic ARIS no. 20488 - 189 soil samples 

 

APPENDIX 4: 2011 GEOPHYSICAL SURVEY DATA (3DIP SURVEY) (available on request) 

Appendix 4.1:  SJ Geophysics, Interpretation Memorandum on the 3DIP Survey for the Aura Project 

Appendix 4.2:  SJ Geophysics, Logistics Report 

Appendix 4.3:  SJ Geophysics, 3D Sections 

Appendix 4.4:  SJ Geophysics, Plan Maps Chargeability 

Appendix 4.5:  SJ Geophysics, Plan Map Resistivity 

 

APPENDIX 5: 2011 PREPARATORY SURVEYS – DETAILED TOPOGRAPHIC MAPPING  

Appendix 5.1:  Detail Topographic map (on dvd) RAM-Aura_PLAN.dwg 

Appendix 5.2:  Detail Digital Elevation Model (on dvd) RAM-Aura_DEM.dwg 

Appendix 5.3:  Orthophoto Geotiff (on dvd) Aura0.TIF 

 
 

 



Longacre 43-101 dated may 30, 2012 

5 

Item 1:  Summary 

Longacre Resources Inc. ("Longacre Resources") holds a 100% interest in the Christa - Aura Property 
("the Property") located in south western B.C. approximately 40 kilometers northeast of the community 
of Hope.  The Property was acquired by direct purchase and staking after a technical review of several 
BC projects at a cost of $17,153.  There are no underlying option payments or Royalties payable by 
Longacre Resources in respect of the Christa – Aura Property.   At the request of Longacre Resources the 
author supervised a preliminary exploration program on the property (completed during August and 
September of 2011) and has prepared a Technical Report on the Property ("the Report") to the 
standards required by National Instrument 43-101 and Form 43-101F (Standards of disclosure for 
mineral properties).   
 

The Property comprises an irregular shaped block of ground approximately 3.75 kilometers long and 
3.10 kilometers wide (2,034.44 ha.) located approximately 11 kilometers east of the Coquihalla Highway.  
At present there are no access roads and the only way to access the project area is by helicopter.  
Previous exploration work by Noranda in the late 1980's identified an outcropping, gold bearing, 
silicified, breccia zone interpreted as a high level epithermal type occurrence (referred to as the Aura 
Breccia).  Preliminary sampling by Noranda in 1990 indicated that the breccia zone was consistently 
mineralized and returned gold values ranging from several hundred ppb to 1,830 ppb (equivalent to 
1.830 g/t gold).  According to Noranda, 63 continuous 1.5 meter samples returned an average grade of 
0.503 g/t gold over a length of 75 meters including a 13.5 meter section that averaged 1,034 ppb 
(equivalent to 1.034 g/t gold).  Figures 1 and 2 are regional scale maps that show the location of the 
Property relative to existing mineral claims, access roads, parks and known exploration prospects 
reported by BC Ministry of Mines ("BCMEM") in southwestern B.C.   

Reconnaissance scale geological mapping, soil geochemical sampling and geophysical surveys completed 
by Noranda indicated the Aura Breccia Zone is localized along a contact between volcanic rocks and 
intrusive rocks and indicated potential for extensions of the zone.  Follow-up drill testing was 
recommended in 1990 by Noranda but was not carried out and the Noranda claims were allowed to 
lapse.  Since the late 1990's the Property has been held intermittently by various private interests but 
there is no published record of any systematic exploration work within the current claim area. 
 
The geology of the project area is relatively simple. Tertiary aged volcanic rocks (Coquihalla Volcanic 
Complex) lie unconformably on the Cretaceous aged Eagle Granodiorite plutonic complex.  The 
mineralized quartz breccia outcrop is exposed over a strike length of roughly 100 meters, has an 
apparent width of several tens of meters and forms a cliff three to seven meters in height, oriented 
north northeast.  Most of the outcrop is comprised of clear to milky quartz fragments in a siliceous 
matrix however, minor portions of the outcrop do not exhibit breccia textures. At these locations the 
rock is a highly silicified-sericitized host containing a quartz stockwork.  This latter rock type is 
gradational into the breccia. In the brecciated portions of the outcrop fragments are angular to sub-
rounded and vary from a few mm to 30 cm in size.  In general the larger fragments are less angular than 



Longacre 43-101 dated may 30, 2012 

6 

the smaller fragments. The breccia is poorly sorted with fragment density ranging from 50% to 80%. 
Locally thin (>5 mm) quartz veins are present cutting through both the fragments and matrix, in other 
locations veins are present within the fragments only.  Thicker milky white quartz veins cut across the 
thinner clear quartz veins indicating at least 2 generations of quartz veining. There are no visible 
sulfides, but the outcrop is variably coloured white to orange.  
 
During August and September of 2011, Longacre Resources carried out an exploration program designed 
to confirm the results reported by Noranda and determine if additional exploration work is warranted.  
The historic Noranda exploration data was entered into a GIS database and a high resolution 
topographic model was constructed to provide accurate base mapping for field operations.  Detailed, 
systematic rock sampling was carried out to verify the grade distribution reported by Noranda from the 
exposed mineralized breccia zone.  Soil geochemical surveys were completed to assess the potential for 
strike extensions of the zone and a three dimensional induced polarization survey ("3D IP survey") was 
completed to determine if the observed mineralized zone has a distinctive chargeability response and to 
assess potential depth extensions of the observed mineralization. 
 
Results of the exploration work completed by Longacre Resources are encouraging.  Assay results of the 
systematic rock sampling program returned consistently anomalous values up to 1.925 g/t gold and have 
confirmed that the Aura Breccia Zone is consistently mineralized.  Soil geochemical surveys confirmed 
there are potential extensions of the zone along strike and the 3DIP survey has confirmed there is a 
distinctive chargeability response associated with the known mineralization.  More importantly the 
geophysical survey has partially defined a much larger response below the exposed mineralized zone 
that exhibits the same chargeability response as the observed mineralization.  According to SJ 
Geophysics the geophysical anomaly identified at depth appears to be much larger than the response 
associated with the observed mineralization and is open along strike to the northeast.  
 
Based on the Author's review of the historic technical data and the results of the exploration work 
completed by Longacre Resources, the Property is considered a promising, early stage epithermal type 
gold prospect.  In the Author's opinion the Property is of sufficient merit to warrant additional 
exploration. 
 
It is recommended that the next stage of exploration work (Stage 1) at the Christa - Aura Property 
consist of additional detailed geological mapping and soil sampling to assess potential strike extensions 
of the known mineralized zone and to determine if there are parallel mineralized zones present within 
the claim area.  This stage of exploration should include detailed structural modeling and 3D geological 
modeling to ensure that all potential target areas (including areas masked by Tertiary volcanics) within 
the Property are identified.  In the event that significant extensions of the known mineralized zone or 
parallel targets are identified within the claim area, a follow-up program (Stage 2) of 3DIP surveys would 
be warranted.   The total estimated cost of the proposed Stage 1 program is $215,000.  Assuming a 
minimum of three high priority target areas are identified in Stage 1, the estimated cost of Stage 2 
geophysical surveys and initial, follow-up drill testing would be approximately $440,000. 



Longacre 43-101 dated may 30, 2012 

7 

Item 2:  Introduction  
  
The Author was retained by the Board of Directors of Longacre Resources to review historic technical 
reports related to the Christa - Aura Property, design and supervise a preliminary exploration program 
to verify the historic data, and, if warranted, outline recommendations for a follow-up exploration 
program.   Longacre Resources intends to utilize this technical report in support of an application to the 
TSX Venture Exchange for an Initial Public Offering.  
 
The available technical data for the Christa - Aura Property consists of regional geological information 
compiled by the BCMEM and documentation regarding field investigations completed within the project 
area by various previous operators including Noranda.  Sources are listed in the References section of 
this Report and are cited where appropriate in the body of the Report.   
 
This Report was prepared in accordance with National Instrument 43-101.   The Qualified Person who is 
the Author of this Report has supervised various exploration projects in the Province of British Columbia.  
The Author visited the Christa - Aura Property several times during August and September of 2011 by 
helicopter from Valley Helicopters' base near Hope, B.C.  The scope of the personal inspection of the 
Property was to confirm the presence of the mineralized zone reported by Noranda, confirm there are 
areas suitable for helicopter assisted operations within the planned target areas and to supervise the 
2011 program.  The Author conducted an online title search on MAY 30, 2012 to verify that all of the 
mineral claims that comprise the Christa - Aura Property are registered in the name of Longacre 
Resources and are in good standing with the BC Ministry of Energy and Mines ("BCMEM").   
 
 
Item 3:  Reliance on Other Experts 
 
The Author has prepared this report based on information which is believed to be accurate but which is 
not guaranteed.  The technical reports listed in the References section of this Report appear to have 
been completed by professional geologists without any promotional or misleading intent and the Author 
has no reason to doubt the accuracy or completeness of the contained information.  
 
To the best of the Author's knowledge at the time of writing this Report, the Property is free of any liens 
or pending legal actions and is not subject to any underlying royalties, back-in rights, payments or other 
encumbrances other than as disclosed in section 6 of this Report.  To the best of the Author's 
knowledge, there are no known existing environmental liabilities to which the property is subject, other 
than the requirement to mitigate any environmental impact on the claims that may arise in the course 
of normal exploration work and the requirement to remove any camps constructed on the Property or 
any equipment used in exploration of the claims in the event that exploration work is terminated. 



Longacre 43-101 dated may 30, 2012 

8 

Item 4:  Property Description and Location 

 
Longacre Resources holds a 100% interest in six adjoining mineral tenures comprising 2,034.44 ha. 
located approximately 40 kilometers northeast of Hope, in south western BC.  All of the claims which 
comprise the Christa - Aura Property were staked pursuant to the BCMEM MTO system (Mineral Titles 
Online System).  The earliest expiry date of the claim package is December 30, 2014. The location of the 
Property relative to other mining claims, local communities, parks and access roads is shown in figure 1.  
The individual claim tenure numbers are shown in figure 3.  The Property is located on BC TRIM 
Mapsheet No.s 92H045 and 92H055. 
 
The Property was acquired by direct purchase and staking after a technical review of several BC projects 
at a cost of $17,153.  The acquisition costs include a total of $4,500 paid to an underlying owner of 
tenure 841690 in exchange for a 100% interest, a total of $2,913.78 paid for re-imbursement of staking 
fees paid to BC Mines for all of the tenures and a total of $9,739.22 paid for consulting fees in 
connection with background research and administrative expenses paid to BC Mines in connection with 
the acquisition.  Longacre holds an undivided 100% interest in the Property and there are no underlying 
option payments or Royalties payable by Longacre Resources in respect of any of the mineral tenures 
which comprise the Christa – Aura Property.    
 
The Property comprises an irregular shaped block of ground (2,034.44 ha.) located approximately 11 
kilometers east of the Coquihalla Highway.  At present there are no access roads and the only way to 
access the project area is by helicopter. The mineral cell title claim statistics are summarized in Table 1; 
note that this claim information is not a legal title opinion but is a compilation of claims data based on 
the Author's review of the government of the British Columbia Mineral Rights inquiry website (BC 
Mineral Titles, May 30, 2012).  The mineral claims do not have to be legally surveyed since they are BC 
Government established cell claims.  
 
Table 1.  List of mineral tenures 
 

Tenure Number Owner FMC Number Good To Date Area (ha) 
841693 Longacre (100%) 254508 2014/Dec/30 377.51 
841698 Longacre (100%) 254508 2014/Dec/30 377.63 
841699 Longacre (100%) 254508 2014/Dec/30 503.19 
841700 Longacre (100%) 254508 2014/Dec/30 125.90 
862595 Longacre (100%) 254508 2014/Dec/30 524.36 
841690 Longacre (100%) 254508 2014/Dec/30 125.85 

 
 
The Christa - Aura Property is owned 100% by Longacre Resources and is not subject to any royalties, 
back in rights, payments or other agreements.    Prior to July 1, 2012 BC Ministry of Mines regulations 
required that title to the claims be maintained through the performance of annual assessment work 
filings and payment of required fees.  For the first three years after a claim was staked a minimum of 



Longacre 43-101 dated may 30, 2012 

9 

$4.00 per hectare in eligible exploration and development expenditures needed to be incurred.  In 
subsequent years, a total of $8.00 per hectare in eligible exploration expenses needed to be  incurred.  
Effective July 1, 2012 new regulations came into effect that changed the requirements from a 2-tier 
system to a 4-tier system and have significantly increased the minimum exploration expenditures that 
are required to maintain mineral tenures in good standing.  Under the new regulations all mineral 
tenures are deemed to be in their first anniversary year and the new minimum exploration expenditures 
will be $5.00 per hectare for anniversary years 1 and 2, $10.00 per hectare for anniversary years 3 and 
4;  $15.00 per hectare for anniversary years 5 and 6 and $20.00 per hectare for each subsequent 
anniversary year. 
 
Prior to July 1, 2012 holders of mineral tenures had the option of making payments equivalent to the 
minimum exploration and development expenditures (referred to as PIED) required by the Ministry of 
Mines instead of incurring the required expenditures.  Under the old regulations a minimum of one day 
and a maximum of one year of PIED could be applied to mineral tenures. Under the regulations which 
come into effect July 1, 2012 the holders of mineral tenures will still have the option of making 
payments instead of exploration and development work however, the new PIED rate will be set at 
double the value of the minimum exploration and development expenditures required.  In addition to 
the changes in the PIED rate tenure holders who elect to make payments instead of incurring 
expenditures will need to pay for a minimum of 6 months which under the new regulations will be 
equivalent to the minimum expenditures for an entire year.  Similar to the assessment work 
requirements, if a recorded holder wishes to register PIED, the claim will also be treated as if it is in its 
first anniversary year for the purpose of calculating the assessment requirement, as of the date of 
implementation (July 1, 2012). 
 
To the best of the Author's knowledge government permits are not required to carry out the proposed 
Stage 1 exploration program but will be required to carry out the proposed Stage 2 exploration program 
and for any follow up diamond drilling program recommended after completion of this program.  These 
programs will require application to the BCMEM for permits and Longacre Resources may be required to 
post security equivalent to the estimated costs of any reclamation work which will be required after 
completion of the proposed exploration work.  To the best of the Author's knowledge, approval from 
local First Nations communities may also be required to carry out the proposed Stage 2 exploration 
program.  The reader is cautioned that there is no guarantee that Longacre Resources will be able to 
obtain approval from local First Nations. However, the Author is not aware of any problems 
encountered by other junior mining companies in obtaining approval to carry out similar programs in 
nearby areas nor is the Author aware of any instances where local First Nations communities have 
objected to exploration work in the general project area. 
 



Longacre 43-101 dated may 30, 2012 

10 

Item 5:  Accessibility, Climate, Local Resources, Infrastructure and Physiography 
 
The Christa - Aura Property is located in the New Westminster and Similkameen Mining Divisions in 
south-central British Columbia. The nearest community is Hope, B.C. located approximately 40 km to the 
southwest. The nearest major road is the Coquihalla Highway located approximately 11 km west of the 
Property.  There are currently no access roads onto the Property.  Consequently, the best way to access 
the Property is by helicopter from Hope, B.C. which is a 40 minute round trip. 
 
The Christa - Aura Property comprises an irregular shaped block surrounding Coquihalla Mountain.  The 
claim block is approximately 3.75km long and 3.1km wide. The center of the Property is at UTM Zone 10 
(NAD 83) at approximately 642,406m East and 5,487,027m North.  The southern part of the Property 
straddles Jim Kelly Creek which drains southeasterly into the Tulameen River approximately 5 kilometers 
east of the Property. Huldra Silver Inc. is currently developing a high grade vein type silver deposit 
(referred to as the Treasure Mountain Project) located approximately 10 kilometers south of the Christa 
– Aura Property.    Access to the Huldra silver project is via an existing logging road that traverses the 
Tulameen River located approximately 5 kilometers to the east of the Property as described in Item 6.   
 
The Property is located in rugged, mountainous terrain that is subject to severe winter weather 
conditions. Temperatures are moderate with annual rainfall recorded at Hope BC of 177 cm and annual 
snowfall recorded at 170 cm.  Exploration work should be carried out between May and October to 
avoid potential problems due to weather conditions.Overall relief is 880 meters, from 1,280 meters a.s.l. 
at Jim Kelly Creek in the southern part of the Property to 2,160 meters a.s.l. on the peak of Coquihalla 
Mountain. Vegetation is alpine to sub-alpine at elevations above 1,615 meters, and is conifer forest at 
lower elevations.  The main work area within the Property is located in the east central part of the claim 
area as shown in Figure 5.  
 
There are abundant water sources within and adjacent to the Property.  At present there are no power 
sources available at the Property; however, it may be technically feasible at some point in the future to 
construct road access from existing logging road access along the Tulameen River approximately 5 
kilometers to the east.  No engineering studies have been undertaken to determine costs or potential 
environmental impacts.   

To the best of the Author`s knowledge, the surface rights to the Property are currently held by the 
Province of British Columbia.  In the event that a significant mineralized zone is identified, an application 
that includes detailed environmental impact studies must be made to the BC Land Title and Survey 
Authority (LTSA) for surface rights prior to initiation of any advanced exploration or mining activities.  
Although no detailed assessment has been undertaken to determine if there are areas within the 
Property that could be used for tailings and or waste disposal the physiography of the central parts of 
the  Christa - Aura Property may be permissible for such uses.  The reader is cautioned that there is no 
guarantee that areas for potential mine waste disposal, heap leach pads, or areas for processing plants 
will be available within the Property. 
 



Longacre 43-101 dated may 30, 2012 

11 

Item 6:  History 
 
The earliest reports of exploration work in the project area were documented in the early 1900's.  Gold-
bearing quartz veins were reportedly worked on in the in the upper reaches of Jim Kelly Creek located in 
the southern part of the Property. According to the BCMEM database, these veins were being worked 
for gold in 1914 (BCDMAR 1914 p. K232).  It is important to note that these vein type occurrences are 
believed to be located immediately south of the Christa – Aura Property.  This reference is included to 
illustrate that previous exploration work identified gold mineralization in the general project area. 
 
The area experienced a second period of activity in 1937 when the gold and silver-bearing quartz veins 
in the Jim Kelly Creek area were reportedly worked with open cuts and short adits (BCDMAR 1937 p. 
D21). The exact locations of these quartz veins and of those worked in 1914 is not given in the BCMEM  
descriptions.  Figure 2, 3 and 4 show the location of several BCMEM Minfile Showings which are 
believed to be the approximate location of the reported gold and silver veins.  
 
In 1966 a considerable amount of work was reportedly done on the south side of Jim Kelly Creek by 
Bethex Exploration Limited. Bethex reportedly excavated 32 trenches totalling over 5,486 m in length 
and drilled 863 m in 5 holes (BCDMAR 1966 p.174). The objective at the time appears to have been 
copper in a porphyry-type situation.  Samples were reportedly assayed for copper and molybdenum but 
not for gold or silver. Assays for these samples are not available.  It is important to note that these 
occurrences are believed to be located immediately south of the Christa – Aura Property.  This reference 
is included to illustrate that previous exploration work identified mineralization in the general project 
area. 
 
In November 1981 to February 1982, Mine Quest Exploration Associates Ltd. staked 13 claims on behalf 
of Clifton Resources Ltd. The claims straddled Jim Kelly Creek on the southeast side of Coquihalla 
Mountain. Five contour soil lines between 1,370 meters and 1,670 meters elevation were sampled 
around the Jim Kelly Creek basin. Seven hundred-twenty soils were collected along these lines.  Of the 
five lines that were sampled, one line showed anomalous gold and silver values in the eastern half of the 
area sampled.  Sample assays ranged from 50 to 165 ppb gold and 5.0 to 35.0 ppm silver).  Rock chip 
samples along this line had uniformly low Au values (AR 10,868).  Most of the sampling completed by 
Clifton Resources appears to have been completed within the boundaries of the Christa – Aura Property.  
Figure 5 shows the reported location of the samples collected.  
 
The exploration program also consisted of prospecting and geological examination. In particular, 
attempts were made to find the gold-bearing locations which are described in BCMAR in 1914 and 1937. 
This was unsuccessful.  In 1985, a follow-up sampling program hoped to extend the anomalous zone of 
gold values to the southeast across the Tertiary Volcanic/Eagle Granodiorite contact. Because of snow 
conditions, sampling had to take place at the 1,330 meter level (below the tree line) and none of the 
collected samples were anomalous. It was thought that the 1982 samples were collected closer to the 
source or in an area of thinner overburden, than those collected during the 1985 program (AR 14,362). 
 



Longacre 43-101 dated may 30, 2012 

12 

A short reconnaissance program targeting the Tertiary Coquihalla Volcanic Complex was implemented 
by Noranda Exploration during the 1988 summer field season. Grab samples from several outcrops were 
collected, and returned weakly to highly anomalous gold values. The two most interesting gold 
anomalies came from an outcrop of quartz breccia exposed on a south facing hillside. One grab sample 
contained 3315 ppb Au (equivalent to 3.315 g/t gold) and 35.9 ppm Ag (equivalent to 35.9 g/t silver) and 
the other had 1540 ppb Au (equivalent to 1.540 g/t gold and 13.4 ppm Ag (equivalent to 13.4 g/t silver). 
Based on these results the Christa claims were staked in October 1988.  Prior to Noranda's staking of the 
Christa claims, the majority of work in this area was concentrated in the valley of Jim Kelly Creek.  
 
From August 6 to August 27, 1989 Noranda completed a work program of grid establishment, soil 
sampling, rock geochemistry, geophysics, petrography and geologic mapping.  In total 11.6, line km of 
grid were established, 420 soils were collected, 172 rocks were analyzed, 7.8 km of ground 
magnetometer work was completed, and a preliminary geologic map was produced (Erdman, 1989).  
Sixty-three continuous 1.5 meter chip samples from the anomalous outcrop of quartz breccia returned 
consistently anomalous levels of Au and Ag. The average over 76 meters was 514 ppb Au (equivalent to 
0.514 g/t gold) and 5.4 ppm Ag, including a 13.5 m section of 1034 ppb Au (equivalent to 1.034 g/t gold) 
and 9.6 ppm Ag. Soil geochemistry defined a 400 m long linear trend of weakly anomalous gold values, 
located south and sub-parallel to the quartz breccia outcrop. 
 
In 1990 the grid was extended to the east and a total of 202 additional soil samples were collected from 
the grid. Gold values in the eastern grid extension were consistently low returning 5 ppb Au or less, and 
Ag is generally 0.8 ppm or less, with two samples having 1.0 ppm Ag, and one sample having 2.0 ppm 
Ag. Barium levels are generally high, consistent with the previous year's observation that soils developed 
over Eagle granodiorite contain greater amounts of barium than those developed over volcanics.  The 
location of the soil geochemical surveys completed by Noranda are shown in Figure 5.  All of the areas 
worked on and sampled by Noranda are located within the boundaries of the Christa – Aura Property.  
 
In addition to the soil sampling and geophysical surveys completed in 1990 twelve rock samples were 
collected from outcrops not sampled in previous years. All of the samples were either of quartz vein, 
quartz breccia or silicified muscovite granite. Only one of the samples, R120921, contained sulfides, as 
5% to 10% very fine grain disseminated pyrite. Three of the rocks contained from 3.6 ppm to 12.8 ppm 
Ag, and the latter silver anomalous sample, also had a low level Au anomaly, 156 ppb Au. This sample 
comes from a small outcrop on Line 41+50E Station 23+74N, 105 m southwest of the anomalous cliff of 
quartz breccia. The remaining 11 samples were not strongly anomalous in gold although two of the 
samples returned weakly elevated Au relative to background: 22 ppb Au and 11 ppb Au. 
 
 



Longacre 43-101 dated may 30, 2012 

13 

Item 7:  Geological Setting and Mineralization 
 
Regional geology 
 
The Tertiary aged Coquihalla Volcanic Complex occurs in the northern part of the Cascade Mountains; 
near the physiographic boundaries with the Coast Mountains on the west and the Interior Plateau on 
the east. The eastern boundary roughly corresponds to the tectonic division between the Coast Plutonic 
Complex and the Intermontane Belt.  The Tertiary Volcanic Complex lies un-conformably on the 
Cretaceous Eagle plutonic complex on all sides except to the southwest, where it is in fault contact with 
Eocene clastic rocks (Grieg, 1988).  The Volcanic Complex covers approximately 30 km and is exposed at 
elevations between 840 m and 2160 m. It is composed of calc-alkaline acid to intermediate extrusive 
and intrusive rocks.  Avalanche breccias and minor amounts of epiclastic conglomerate and sandstone 
are also present. 
 
The Eagle plutonic complex is a large body of gneissic granodiorite, muscovite granite and 
heterogeneous gneiss (Grieg, 1988). It is the southern part of the Mount-Lytton Eagle Complex, an 
elongate north northwest trending plutonic complex that has a length of over 200 km. 
 
Property Geology 
 
The area covered by the Christa – Aura  claims is primarily underlain by rocks of the Tertiary Coquihalla 
Volcanic Complex. These were mapped in detail by Berman (1979) and by Erdman (1989). Rocks of the 
Eagle Granodiorite are exposed in outcrop in the southern part of the Christa – Aura claims.. 
 
The Tertiary igneous rocks are sub-divided into seven map units based on textural and mineralogical 
properties. Two of the seven members are, extrusive, the remaining five are all intrusive, emplaced with 
the extrusive members. An acidic pyroclastic tuff has the greatest aerial extent and is present 
throughout most of the claim block. Intrusive into this are a flow banded rhyolite (possibly a remnant of 
a rhyolite dome), a dioritic to quartz dioritic stock, pyroxene and hornblende andesites, and a 
hornblende dacite. The andesite and dacite members take the form of dykes, sills and domes. The 
youngest extrusive has a limited extent, and is identified by Berman (1979) as an explosion breccia. 
 
The eighth member of the Tertiary Coquihalla Volcanic Complex is an avalanche breccia, formed by large 
scale avalanching into the subsiding Coquihalla basin (Berman, 1979). This unit is similar to breccias 
described by Lambert (1974) at the Bennett Lake Caldera Complex. 
 
The contact between the muscovite granite and gneiss complex is not well defined in the field due to 
lack of outcrop. It was decided that the most eastern outcrops of gneiss established the position of the 
contact, despite the fact that outcrops of non-pegmatitic muscovite granite do appear west of this line.  
According to Greig (1988) the muscovite bearing granite is the youngest phase within the Eagle Plutonic 
Complex and has mixed intrusive relationships at its contact with the older intrusive phases. 
 



Longacre 43-101 dated may 30, 2012 

14 

At the contact with the overlying volcanic tuff these 2 phases of the Eagle Complex show a breccia 
texture. These breccias have angular to subangular, monolithologic, tightly packed fragments within a 
matrix of the same lithologic material, making it difficult to distinguish the brecciation without careful 
observation. The zone of brecciation lies adjacent and parallel to the contact with the overlying tuff, and 
varies from 30 meters to 125 meters in width. It appears to continue to the southwest beyond the limit 
of mapping, but dies out towards the east, away from the plutonic- volcanic contact. Difficult access to 
the north trending plutonic- volcanic contact prevented mapping of this breccia zone at this location. 
 
Mineralization 
 

Previous exploration work by Noranda in the late 1980's identified an outcropping, gold bearing, 
silicified, breccia zone (referred to as the Aura Breccia) interpreted as a high level epithermal type 
occurrence.  Preliminary sampling by Noranda in 1990 indicated that the breccia zone was consistently 
mineralized and returned gold values ranging from several hundred ppb to 1,830 ppb (equivalent to 
1.830 g/t gold).  According to Noranda, 63 continuous 1.5 meter samples returned an average grade of 
0.503 g/t gold over a length of 75 meters including a 13.5 meter section that averaged 1,034 ppb 
(equivalent to 1.034 g/t gold).   

The mineralized quartz breccia outcrop forms a cliff 3 meters to 7 meters in height, approximately 100 
meters in length oriented at 024/25". Most of the outcrop is comprised of clear to milky quartz 
fragments in a siliceous matrix. However, minor portions of the outcrop do not exhibit breccia textures. 
At these locations the rock is a highly silicified-sericitized host containing a quartz stockwork. This latter 
rock type is gradational into the breccia. In the brecciated portions of the outcrop fragments are angular 
to sub-rounded and vary from a few mm to 30 cm in size. In general the larger fragments are less 
angular than the smaller fragments. The breccia is poorly sorted with fragment density ranging from 
50% to 80%. Locally thin (>5 mm) quartz veins are present cutting through both the fragments and 
matrix, in other locations veins are present within the fragments only. Thicker milky white quartz veins 
cut across the thinner clear quartz veins indicating at least 2 generations of quartz veining. There are no 
visible sulfides, but the outcrop is variably coloured white to orange. The orange tint is not a surface 
coating, but is pervasive throughout the breccia. 
 
Mapping, rock sampling, soil geochemical surveys and geophysical surveys completed by Noranda and 
by Longacre have confirmed the presence of a significant mineralized zone (Aura Breccia) and found 
several smaller outcrops of similar quartz breccia, both to the southwest and northeast along strike, as 
well as higher in elevation. All of these have similar strikes and dips, suggesting a series of stacked sub-
parallel silicified breccia zones with a possible strike length of 335 meters.  Figure 5 shows the location 
of the geochemical survey grids and the location of the mineralized zone referred to as the Aura Breccia.  
 



Longacre 43-101 dated may 30, 2012 

15 

Item 8:  Deposit Types – High level Epithermal Gold – Silver Deposits 

Based on historic and current technical data the observed gold mineralization within the Christa - Aura 
Property is classified as a high level, epithermal type prospect.  This type of deposit is described by 
Panteleyev, (1996): Hot-spring Au-Ag, in Selected British Columbia Mineral Deposit Profiles, Volume 2 - 
Metallic Deposits, Lefebure, D.V. and Hõy,T., Editors, British Columbia Ministry of Employment and 
Investment, Open File 1996-13, pages 33-36. 
 
EXAMPLES (British Columbia (MINFILE #) - Canada/International): Cinola (uppermost part, 103F 034), 
Clisbako (093C 016), Wolf (093F 045), Trout (093F 044); McLaughlin (California, USA), Round Mountain 
(Nevada, USA). 
 
GEOLOGICAL CHARACTERISTICS:  Auriferous chalcedonic or opaline silica and fine-grained quartz form 
veins, stockworks and matrix filling in breccias hosted by volcanic and, less commonly, sedimentary 
rocks.  These are the uppermost parts of epithermal systems which develop mineralized siliceous caps a 
few metres to hundreds of meters below surface with subaerial siliceous sinter deposits at the water 
table and explosion breccias above.  
 
TECTONIC SETTINGS: Continental margin rifting and district-scale fracture systems with associated 
bimodal or low volume mafic to intermediate volcanism. Commonly in regions of strike-slip faulting with 
transform faults and transtensional basin margins.  Also extensional tectonism with related caldera 
development and resurgence, flow-dome complexes and high-level subvolcanic intrusive activity. 
 
DEPOSITIONAL ENVIRONMENT / GEOLOGICAL SETTING:  Shallow parts of fossil geothermal systems. 
Hotsprings deposit silica near the paleo groundwater table and as subaerial, ponded precipitates. 
Deeper fluids are channelled by permeable stratigraphic units, hydrothermal breccia bodies and 
faulted/fractured rocks. Subaerial volcanic centres including flow-dome or caldera complexes and 
related radial and ring fracture systems. 
  
AGE OF MINERALIZATION: Tertiary and Quaternary are most common; some currently active 
hotsprings.  Hotspring sinters as old as Late Devonian have been described (Cunneen and Sillitoe, 1989).  
 
HOST/ASSOCIATED ROCK TYPES:  Intermediate or bimodal basaltic-rhyolitic volcanics including volcanic 
flows, flow domes, tuffs and breccias; hydrothermal breccias and siliceous sinters.   Any type of 
permeable or structurally prepared country rock can be mineralized, most commonly ash flow units and 
caldera-fill sediments. In some cases, serpentinized ultramafic and mafic rocks in major fault zones in 
areas of post-faulting volcanic activity are mineralized. Sedimentary rocks occur at Cinola and many 
other deposits. 
 
DEPOSIT FORM:  Near-surface, lensoid hotspring deposits and planar lithologic replacement zones. 
Individual zones are up to hundreds of metres in two dimensions and tens of metres in the third. 
Underlying these are cone or wedge-like hydrothermal feeder systems with quartz stockworks and veins 

http://minfile.gov.bc.ca/Summary.aspx?minfilno=103F++034
http://minfile.gov.bc.ca/Summary.aspx?minfilno=093C++016
http://minfile.gov.bc.ca/Summary.aspx?minfilno=093F++045
http://minfile.gov.bc.ca/Summary.aspx?minfilno=093F++044


Longacre 43-101 dated may 30, 2012 

16 

centred on regional-scale fault and fracture zones, or their splays. Locally phreatic and phreatomagmatic 
explosion pits formed at the paleosurface. 
 
TEXTURE/STRUCTURE: Generally very fine grained disseminated sulphides in silicified (opalized and 
chalcedonic) country rocks and silica sinter; hydrothermal breccias, quartz stockworks and banded to 
vuggy, sheeted, multiple-generation quartz- chalcedony veins.  Hydrofracturing textures are common. 
 
ORE MINERALOGY (Principal and subordinate): Pyrite, marcasite, gold, electrum; stibnite, sulphosalt 
minerals, realgar, cinnabar (cinnibar only near tops of deposits). 
 
GANGUE MINERALOGY (Principal and subordinate):  Quartz, chalcedony; opal, calcite, dolomite, barite. 
Strong silicification with quartz, chalcedony and opal in crustified, banded veins, sheeted veins and 
stockworks is characteristic in ores. Silica in some deposits contains abundant hydrocarbons that impart 
a characteristic brownish colour to the quartz. 
 
ALTERATION MINERALOGY (Principal and subordinate): Multiple episodes of silicification to form veins 
and stockworks, and pervasive silicified hostrocks adjacent to them, is typical. Country rocks containing 
the silicified zones have argillic and, less commonly, advanced argillic assemblages with quartz-kaolinite 
and rarely alunite. They are flanked, or underlain, by propylitic rocks with chlorite, Fe oxides, zeolites 
and minor adularia. Selenite, alunite and other sulphate minerals and native sulphur can be abundant 
locally near surface. 
 
ORE CONTROLS: A key element at the McLaughlin deposit was the superposition of multiple generations 
of auriferous veinlets each carrying a small amount of gold (Lehrman, 1986). 
 
GENETIC MODEL: Hydrothermal breccias and multiple generations of veins with calcite replacement by 
silica attest to boiling of hydrothermal fluids as an important ore-depositing mechanism. The boiling 
levels are related to the paleosurface and commonly have a surficial expression as active or paleo-
hotsprings. The deeper hydrothermal fluid systems, generally within 500 meters of surface 
(paleosurface for older deposits), can be developed along active, regional high-angle faults and other 
volcanic and subvolcanic intrusion-related structures. The structures commonly cut or flank domes in 
flow-dome complexes. 
 
COMMENTS: Many deposits currently being exploited throughout the world have grades between 1 and 
2 g/t Au and range from a few to tens of millions of tonnes in size.  They are viable generally because the 
rocks are commonly strongly oxidized and the gold can be recovered by heap leaching methods. The 
siliceous sinters formed at or very near to the surface rarely contain economic mineralization.  These 
deposits have a greater depth extent then hotspring mercury deposits. In their deeper parts they may 
grade into precious metal bearing and base metal epithermal veins. 
  
EXPLORATION GUIDES / GEOCHEMICAL SIGNATURE: Au, Sb, As, Hg, Tl near surface, increasing Ag, Ba at 
depth; locally Ni, B, Li and W. The Ag/Au ratio varies from 1:1 at surface to 30:1 at a depth of a few 



Longacre 43-101 dated may 30, 2012 

17 

hundred metres. Mineralized rocks can be strongly leached at surface. Notably absent are: Se, Te, F, Mo, 
Sn and Mn. Base metal content is relatively low, for example, common amounts are Cu <60 ppm, Pb <5 
ppm and Zn <450 ppm. 
 
ECONOMIC FACTORS / TYPICAL GRADE AND TONNAGE: Mineralization tends to be low grade.   
Economically attractive bulk-mineable deposits contain >10 Mt of 1 to 2 g/t Au, or greater.  High-grade 
veins and stockworks within the larger mineralized zones can be exploited by underground methods. 
Reserves for Cinola deposit in BC are about 31 Mt with 2.19 g/t Au; the deposit has a feeder zone at 
depth that contains material containing in excess of 100 g/t Au. 
 
Additional exploration work is warranted on the Christa – Aura Property to determine the extent of the 
Aura Breccia and to determine if there are parallel mineralized zones present within the claim area.  
 
 
Item 9:  Exploration  
 
During August and September of 2011 Longacre Resources carried out an exploration program designed 
to confirm the results reported by Noranda and determine if additional exploration work is warranted.  
The historic Noranda exploration data was entered into a GIS database and a high resolution 
topographic model was constructed to provide base mapping for field operations.  Detailed, systematic 
rock sampling was carried out to verify the grade distribution reported by Noranda from the exposed 
mineralized breccia zone.  Soil geochemical surveys were completed to assess the potential for strike 
extensions of the zone and a 3D IP survey was completed to determine if the observed mineralized zone 
has a distinctive chargeability response and to assess potential depth extensions of the observed 
mineralization.  Historic and 2011 soil sample locations are shown in Figure 5 and 6.  Rock sample 
locations are shown in Figure 7 and Figure 8.  ALS Chemex Assay certificates and results for the soil and 
rock samples collected in 2011 are included as Appendix 2.  Historic assay results based on the work 
completed by Noranda and Clifton Resources are included as Appendix 3.  The complete text and figures 
from the SJ Geophysics 3DIP Survey are available as Appendix 4.  The detailed topographic and elevation 
mapping completed by Dudley Thompson Mapping is available as Appendix 5.    
 
Results of the exploration work completed by Longacre Resources are encouraging.  Assay results of the 
systematic rock sampling program completed at the Aura Breccia returned grades ranging from 0.100 
g/t gold to 1.925 g/t gold and have confirmed that the exposed breccia zone is consistently mineralized 
(as reported by Noranda).  Soil geochemical surveys confirmed there are potential extensions of the 
zone along strike and the 3DIP survey has confirmed there is a distinctive chargeability response 
associated with the known mineralization.  More importantly the geophysical survey has partially 
defined a much larger response below the exposed mineralized zone that exhibits the same 
chargeability response as the observed mineralization.   
 
SJ Geophysics provided the following summary of the 3DIP survey and results.  In summary, the 3DIP 
survey succeeded at resolving interesting resistivity and chargeability anomalies in the subsurface. 



Longacre 43-101 dated may 30, 2012 

18 

Importantly, a small near-surface area of anomalously high chargeability was identified which matches 
the location of a mineralized outcrop mapped at the surface.  A much larger zone of high chargeability 
was identified at depth; if this is similarly mineralized, it could be a worthy drilling target. 
 
The Aura Project 3DIP survey consisted of five lines (two receiver lines and three transmitter lines) in a 
600 m x 200 m grid elongate to the northwest. The grid extends from a mountain summit at the 
northwest end and slopes down the mountainside to the southeast.  Previous geological field mapping 
by the client identified a mineralized zone near the centre of the 3DIP grid (Figure 9). The results of the 
3DIP survey are consistent with the geologic mapping in that a zone of anomalously high chargeability 
(~15 ms) in the shallow subsurface matches the mineralized zone mapped at the surface.  This near-
surface chargeability anomaly is relatively small in size (~50 m x ~25 m) and extends to only ~35 m 
beneath the surface before dissipating. 
 
Geophysical features across the rest of the grid and at greater depths include additional interesting 
zones of anomalous resistivity and chargeability (Figure 10).  The near-surface, northwest end of the grid 
is characterized by low resistivity (<400 ohm-m) and low chargeability (<4 ms) values. With the 
exception of the near-surface chargeability anomaly mentioned previously, the shallow south eastern 
parts of the grid are mostly characterized by moderate resistivity (200 to 1100 ohm-m) and moderate 
chargeability (4 to 11 ms) values.   The deeper portions of the grid are characterized by higher resistivity 
(1100 to >3000 ohm-m) and chargeability (9 to >15 ms) values. We hypothesize that the shallow areas 
with both low/moderate resistivity and low/moderate chargeability (above the dashed lines in Figure 
10) may represent Coquihalla Volcanic Complex rocks while the deeper zones with higher 
resistivity/chargeability may represent crystalline basement rocks (e.g. Cretaceous Eagle Peak plutonic 
complex rocks) The dashed lines in Figure 2 show two inferred lithologic contacts that separate rock 
units with differing physical properties. Based on our limited information, we hypothesize that this 
contact could be the unconformable boundary between the volcanic and plutonic rocks in this area. 
 
Perhaps the most interesting anomaly identified in this survey is a deep chargeability high centred at 
about 100 m below the surface on the northwest side of the grid (Figures 10). This anomaly is of similar 
magnitude to the near-surface chargeability high (up to 15 ms) but it is much larger in size (length and 
width each >100 m). This deep chargeability high also extends off of the northeast side of the grid, so 
the full spatial extent of this anomaly is not yet known.  The geophysical inversion results suggest that 
the deep chargeability high is not connected to the near-surface chargeability high. In the event that the 
deep chargeability high is mineralized it may be a worthy target for drilling. 
 



Longacre 43-101 dated may 30, 2012 

19 

 
 
Figure 9: Map view of the geophysical grid at the Aura project showing the interpreted chargeability at a 
depth of only 15 m below topography. The near-surface chargeability high (red body near centre of grid) 
corresponds well with the mineralized outcrop mapped at the surface (black dashed line).  
 

The technical data for the 3D IP survey is listed as follows in Appendix 4 and is available on request. 

Appendix 4.1:  SJ Geophysics, Interpretation Memorandum on the 3DIP Survey for the Aura Project 

Appendix 4.2:  SJ Geophysics, Logistics Report 

Appendix 4.3:  SJ Geophysics, 3D Sections 

Appendix 4.4:  SJ Geophysics, Plan Maps Chargeability 

Appendix 4.5:  SJ Geophysics, Plan Map Resistivity 



Longacre 43-101 dated may 30, 2012 

20 

 

 
 
Figure 10: Cross-sections along survey line 7200E for resistivity (top panel) and chargeability (bottom 
panel). View looking to the southwest. Regions of anomalously high and low resistivity/chargeability are 
identified. The locations of inferred lithologic contacts are shown as dashed lines. 
 



Longacre 43-101 dated may 30, 2012 

21 

Item 10:  Drilling  

No diamond drilling was carried out by Longacre Resources on the Property.  According to published 
historic technical reports no previous operators have completed any drilling within the current Property. 
 

Item 11:  Sample preparation, Analysis and Security  

As noted in the Exploration section of this Report, Longacre Resources completed detailed, systematic 
rock sampling to verify the grade distribution reported by Noranda from the exposed mineralized 
breccia zone.  Soil geochemical surveys were completed to assess the potential for strike extensions of 
the zone and to verify the grid soil survey results reported by Noranda. 
 
All rock samples were numbered and sealed in plastic bags.  Soil samples were placed in standard Kraft 
sample bags and sealed for shipment to ALS Chemex in North Vancouver, B.C..  Samples were 
transported by helicopter to Hope BC and the Author personally transported all soil and rock samples to 
the ALS Chemex facility in North Vancouver.  Rock samples were pulverized to -100 mesh and the -80 
micrometer mesh sieved fraction of the soil samples was dissolved in an aqua regia solution (3:1 mixture 
of hydrochloric and nitric acid) and analyzed for the series of 35 elements listed in the ALS Chemex assay 
reports.  Gold was analyzed using a 10g sample split and conventional AA analysis techniques.  Based on 
the fact that the sampling program was designed to verify and follow up previous exploration work 
completed by Noranda in 1989 no additional QA and QC procedures were implemented as part of the 
program. 
 
The elements analyzed for and the detection limits are listed in the assay reports.  ALS Chemex employs 
standard QA and QC protocols on all sample analyses including inserting one blank, reference standard 
and duplicate analysis in every twenty samples analyzed.  No additional QA and QC procedures were 
implemented as part of the program.  Sample Certificates from the 2011 exploration program are 
included in Appendix 2.  In the author's opinion, the sample security employed by the field personnel 
involved in the sample collection and the sample preparation and analytical procedures employed by 
ALS Chemex are adequate for the exploration program to be carried out by Longacres Resources on the 
Property.  
 

Item 12:  Data Verification 

The soil and rock samples reported by Noranda as part of the 1989 and 1990 exploration programs were 
collected using conventional sampling tools.  Rock sampling was completed using hammer and chisel to 
obtain representative 1.5 meter channel samples across the exposed mineralized breccia zone.  Soil 
sampling was completed along 50 to 100 meter spaced northwest oriented traverse lines that crossed 
the known mineralized zone and extended for approximately 500 meters along strike to the northeast 
and to the southwest.   
 



Longacre 43-101 dated may 30, 2012 

22 

According to Noranda samples were processed and analyzed at ACME Analytical Laboratories Ltd. in 
Vancouver.    Rock specimens were pulverized to -120 mesh (0.13 mm).   Sediments and soils were dried 
at approximately 80°C and sieved with a 80 mesh nylon screen.  The -80 mesh (0.18 mm) fraction is used 
for geochemical analysis.   All samples were analyzed for a suite of trace elements by ICP and for gold by 
conventional AA techniques.  
 
The Author personally supervised the rock sampling and soil sampling programs completed by Longacre.  
The objective of the rock sampling program carried out by the Author was to verify the results reported 
by Noranda in 1989.   
 
Rock sample results and soil sample results from the 2011 sampling program and the Noranda programs 
are reported in Appendix 2 and 3.    All results reported by ALS Chemex are consistent with the results 
reported by ACME Analytical Laboratories Ltd.  Results for both soil and rock samples are consistent 
with the results reported by Noranda and it is concluded that the results reported by Noranda are 
accurate.   
 

Item 13:  Mineral Processing and Metallurgical Testing 

No mineral processing or metallurgical testing has been carried out on samples from the Property. 

 

Item 14:  Mineral Resource and Mineral Reserve Estimates 

No defined body of potentially commercial mineralization has been identified to date on the Property 
and therefore no resource or mineral reserve estimate has been completed. 
 

Item 15 -22:  Advanced Property Disclosure   

(NOT REQUIRED) 

 

ITEM 23:  Adjacent Properties  

There are no significant adjoining properties that are geologically relevant to the Property. 
 
Huldra Silver Inc. is currently developing a high grade vein type silver deposit (referred to as the 
Treasure Mountain Project) located approximately 10 kilometers south of the Christa – Aura Property.    
Access to the Huldra silver project is via an existing logging road that traverses the Tulameen River 
located approximately 5 kilometers to the east of the Property as described in Item 5.   
 



Longacre 43-101 dated may 30, 2012 

23 

Item 24:  Other Relevant Data and Information  

There is no other relevant data or information available for the Property.  There is no additional 
information or explanation necessary to make the technical report understandable and not misleading. 
 

Item 25:  Interpretation and Conclusions       

Previous exploration work by Noranda in the late 1980's identified an outcropping, gold bearing, 
silicified, breccia zone interpreted as a high level epithermal type occurrence (referred to as the Aura 
Breccia).  Preliminary sampling by Noranda in 1990 indicated that the breccia zone was consistently 
mineralized and returned gold values ranging from 0.100 to 1.500 g/t gold.  According to Noranda 63 
continuous 1.5 meter samples returned an average grade of 0.503 g/t gold.  
 
During August and September of 2011, Longacre Resources carried out an exploration program designed 
to confirm the results reported by Noranda and determine if additional exploration work is warranted.  
The historic Noranda exploration data was entered into a GIS database and a high resolution 
topographic model was constructed to provide base mapping for field operations.  Detailed, systematic 
rock sampling was carried out to verify the grade distribution reported by Noranda from the exposed 
mineralized breccia zone.  Soil geochemical surveys were completed to assess the potential for strike 
extensions of the zone and a 3D IP survey was completed to determine if the observed mineralized zone 
has a distinctive chargeability response and to assess potential depth extensions of the observed 
mineralization. 
 
Results of the exploration work completed by Longacre Resources are encouraging.  Assay results of the 
systematic rock sampling program returned grades ranging from 0.100 g/t gold to 1.925 g/t gold and 
have confirmed that the exposed breccia zone is consistently mineralized.  Soil geochemical surveys 
confirmed there are potential extensions of the zone along strike and the 3DIP survey has confirmed 
there is a distinctive chargeability response associated with the known mineralization.  More 
importantly the geophysical survey has partially defined a much larger response below the exposed 
mineralized zone that exhibits the same chargeability response as the observed mineralization.  
According to SJ Geophysics the geophysical anomaly identified at depth appears to be much larger than 
the response associated the observed mineralization is open along strike to the north northeast.  
 
Based on the Author's review of the historic technical data and the results of the exploration work 
completed by Longacre Resources, the Property is considered a promising, early stage epithermal type 
gold prospect.  In the Author's opinion, the Property is of sufficient merit to warrant additional 
exploration. 
 



Longacre 43-101 dated may 30, 2012 

24 

Item 26:  Recommendations  

Mapping, rock sampling, soil geochemical surveys and geophysical surveys completed by Noranda and 
by Longacre have confirmed the presence of a significant mineralized zone (Aura Breccia) and found 
several smaller outcrops of similar quartz breccia, both to the southwest and northeast along strike, as 
well as higher in elevation. All of these have similar strikes and dips, suggesting a series of stacked sub-
parallel silicified breccia zones with a possible strike length of 335 meters.  Figure 5 shows the location 
of the geochemical and geophysical (IP) survey grids and the location of the mineralized zone referred to 
as the Aura Breccia.  

It is recommended that the next stage of exploration work (Stage 1) at the Christa - Aura Property 
consist of additional detailed geological mapping and soil sampling to assess potential strike extensions 
of the Aura Breccia Zone  and to determine if there are parallel mineralized zones present within the 
claim area.  This stage of exploration should include detailed structural modeling and 3D geological 
modeling to ensure that all potential target areas (including areas covered by shallow thicknesses of 
Tertiary volcanic rocks) within the Property are identified.  In the event that significant extensions of the 
known mineralized zone or parallel targets are identified within the claim area a follow-up program 
(Stage 2) of 3DIP surveys would be warranted.    
 
The total estimated cost of the proposed Stage 1 program is $215,000.  Assuming a minimum of three 
high priority target areas are identified in Stage 1 the estimated cost of Stage 2 geophysical surveys and 
follow-up drill testing would be $440,000. 
 

Proposed Stage 1 Exploration Program 

Engineering and project supervision, reports   $  17,500 
 
Field costs, vehicle rentals, helicopter charter       37,500 
 
Field personnel (4 man crew) reconnaissance soil surveys  
geological mapping (allow 30 days @ $2,500 incl.) 
-allowance for mapping and sample collection (1,000 samples)     75,000 
-soil and rock sample assays         35,000 
 
Crew accommodation and camp expense       25,000 

Contingency           25,000     

Total estimated cost of Stage 1     $215,000 

 

Proposed Stage 2 Exploration Program 

Engineering, permitting and project supervision, reports  $  25,000 
 



Longacre 43-101 dated may 30, 2012 

25 

Field costs, vehicle rentals, helicopter charter       75,000 
 
Geological mapping, supervision of trenching program      50,000 
-collection of fill-in soil samples as required 
 
Geophysical surveys – allow minimum 2 grid areas incl.    100,000 

Diamond drill testing – allow minimum 500 meter program    150,000 

Contingency @ 10%          40,000 

Total estimated cost of Stage 2     $440,000 

 

Item 27:  REFERENCES  
 

B.C. Department of Mines Annual reports (and successor publications): 1914 pp K232 – K233, 1937 pp D-
21 – D22, 1966 p. 174 

Berman, R.G., and Armstrong, R.L., 1980:  Geology of the Coquihalla Volcanic complex, Southwestern 
British Columbia, Can. Journal of Earth Sciences 17, pp 985-995. 

Erdman, L.R., 1990:  Assessment Report – Geological , Geochemical and Geophysical Surveys on the 
Coquihalla Group of Claims, Claim Group,  Noranda Exploration Company Limited. ARIS Report No.16931 

Erdman, L.R., 1990:  Assessment Report – Geological , Geochemical and Geophysical Surveys on the 
Coquihalla Group of Claims, Claim Group,  Noranda Exploration Company Limited. ARIS Report No.20488 

Gourlay, A.W., 1986: Coquihalla Project – Geochemical Soil sampling for Clifton Resources Ltd., 
Minequest Explorations Associates Ltd., ARIS Report No.14362 

Greig, C.J., 1988: Geology and Geochronology of the Eagle Plutonic Complex, Hope Map Area,  in Current 
Research , Part E, Geological Survey of Canada Paper 88-11E, pp 177-183. 

Lambert, M.B., The Bennett Lake Cauldron Subsidence Complex, British Columbia and Yukon Territory, 
Geological Survey of Canada Bulletin 227, p 213.  

Longe, R.V., 1982: Coquihalla Project -Geochemical Soil sampling for Clifton Resources Ltd., Minequest 
Explorations Associates Ltd., ARIS Report No.10868Panteleyev, (1996): Hot-spring Au-Ag, in Selected 
British Columbia Mineral Deposit Profiles, Volume 2 - Metallic Deposits, Lefebure, D.V. and Hõy,T., 
Editors, British Columbia Ministry of Employment and Investment, Open File 1996-13, pages 33-36. 



Longacre 43-101 dated may 30, 2012 

26 

DATE AND SIGNATURE PAGE 

CERTIFICATE OF QUALIFIED PERSON, CARL A. VON EINSIEDEL   

I, Carl A. von Einsiedel, PGeo.  hereby certify that: 
 
1)  I am an independent consulting geologist with a business address at #3206-610 Granville St., 

Vancouver, British Columbia V6C-3T3. 
 
2)  I am a graduate of Carleton University, Ottawa, Ontario (1989) with a B.Sc. in Geology. 
 
3)  I am a registered Professional Geologist in good standing with the Association of Professional 

Engineers and Geoscientists of British Columbia (APEGBC – License no. 21474).  
 
4)  I have worked as a geologist for a total of 25 years since graduation from university. I have work 

experience in most parts of Canada, as well as the United States and Mexico.   I have both 
epithermal and intrusión related gold deposit exploration experience in Mexico, British 
Columbia and the Yukon.  

 
5)  I have read the definition of "qualified person" set out in National Instrument 43-101 ("NI 43-

101") and certify that by reason of my education, affiliation with a professional association (as 
defined in NI 43-101) and past relevant work experience, I fulfill the requirement to be a 
"qualified person" for the purposes of NI 43-101. 

 
6)  I am responsible for all sections of the technical report titled "43-101 REVIEW OF TECHNICAL 

INFORMATION AND PROPOSED EXPLORATION PROGRAM FOR THE CHRISTA – AURA PROPERTY" 
prepared for Longacre Resources Inc. dated May  30, 2012  (the "Technical Report") relating to 
the Property.  I visited the Property several times during August and September  2011. 

 
7)  I have not had prior involvement with the Property that is the subject of the Technical Report. 
 
8)  I am not aware of any material fact or material change with respect to the subject matter of the 

Technical Report that is not reflected in the Technical Report, the omission to disclose which 
makes the Technical Report misleading. 

 
9)  I am fully independent of Longacre Resources Inc. in applying all of the tests in section 1.5 of 

National Instrument 43-101. 
 
10)  I have read National Instrument 43-101 and Form 43-101F1, and the Technical Report has been 

prepared in compliance with that instrument and form. 
 
11)  I consent to the public filing of the Technical Report with the  British Columbia Securities 

Commission, and the Alberta Securities Commission, any stock exchange and any other 
regulatory authority and any publication by them for regulatory purposes, including SEDAR 
filings and electronic publication in the public company files on their websites accessible by the 
public, of the Technical Report and to extracts from, or a summary of, he Technical Report in the 
written disclosure being filed, by Longacres Resources Inc., in public information documents so 
being filed including any offering memorandum, preliminary prospectus and final prospectus 





















APPENDIX 2:  2011 SOIL AND ROCK SAMPLE ASSAY  

   



Appendix 2.1:  2011 Soil and Rock Geochemistry Certificates va11191811 

   

















Appendix 2.2:  2011 Soil and Rock Geochemistry Certificates va11196113 

   

















Appendix 2.2:  2011 Soil and Rock Geochemistry Certificates va11196114 

   











Appendix 2.2:  2011 Soil and Rock Geochemistry Certificates va11203225 

   
















	Item 27:  REFERENCES

'