b"


















































Grenville Gold (TSX-V:GVG)


Suite 207 – 475 Howe Street
Vancouver, BC V6C 2B3

(604) 669-8842

 
 
 

October 16, 2007 

GRENVILLE FINDS HIGH RIDGE NEWS RELASE DEFAMATORY  
 

Vancouver, B.C. – Grenville Gold Corporation ("Grenville" or "the Company", TSX 
Venture: GVG, OTCBB: GVLGF, Frankfurt: F9I (WKN: A0KELU) has reviewed the 
recent news release by High Ridge Resources relating to their inability to access their 
properties near Grenville's Silveria Property.  The Company confirms that it has 
contacted its Peru offices, Mr. Gill and Mr. De Melt and all are unaware of any criminal 
proceedings.  No papers have been served to the Company, Mr. Gill or Mr. De Melt, nor 
has there been any contact with any government officials on this matter.  Should any 
such proceeding come to light, Grenville and its Officers and Directors will defend the 
company vigorously.  The Company finds the news release by High Ridge defamatory. 
 
As previously stated in a news release dated July 17, 2007, Grenville has indicated it 
has purchased the surface rights in the area of four silver mines in Peru.  The road 
through the 3393 Ha owned by Grenville is a private road.  Further, in a news release 
dated August 31, 2007, Grenville indicated the private road through its properties was 
closed for safety reasons due to damage to the road.  The Company was acting 
responsibly to ensure safety of those using the road.  Any company wishing to access 
the road must have an agreement with Grenville, which owns the surface rights.  High 
Ridge has no such agreement with Grenville. 
 
About Grenville Gold Corporation 
 
Grenville Gold www.grenvillegoldcorp.com is a junior resource company seeking 
prospective properties in Peru and Ecuador.  The Company has three operating 
subsidiaries: 90%-owned Inversiones Mineras Alexander S.A.C. in Peru which owns the 
Silveria Property, Espanola Property and the Chorobal Property, Minera MineGreville 
S.A. in Ecuador which has an option to acquire the La Tigrera Project, and Parkman 
Diamond Corp. in Ontario, Canada which owns the Parkman Diamond Prospect.  
Grenville Gold plans to leverage the experience of its board and management in 
exploration and mining to develop its growth strategy in North and South America. 
 
 
On behalf of the Board of Directors, 
 
"Tom Thomsen" 
  
Ph. 604-669-8842 
info@grenvillegold.com    
 
We Seek Safe Harbour 
 
The TSX-Venture Exchange has not reviewed and does not accept responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of this 
release. All statements, other than statements of historical fact, included herein are forward-looking statements that 
involve various risks and uncertainties. There can be no assurance that such statements will prove to be accurate, and 
actual results and future events could differ materially from those anticipated in such statements. Important factors that 
could cause actual results to differ materially from the Company's expectations are disclosed in the Company's 
documents filed from time to time with the TSX Venture Exchange, the British Columbia Securities Commission, the 
Ontario Securities Commission, and the Alberta Securities Commission. 

http://www.grenvillegoldcorp.com/
mailto:info@grenvillegold.com

"