b'














































TABLE OF CONTENTS


 
Technical Review 

 

Gold Summit Project 
 

British Columbia, Canada 
 

NTS map area 092J15E & 16W 
BCGS Maps 092J/088 & 098 

Latitude 50o53' N Longitude 122o31' W 
UTM Zone 10 (NAD 83): 0534000E/5637000N  

British Columbia Minfile: 092JNE035 
 

 
 

Prepared for 
 

Havilah Mines Ltd. & St. Elias Mines Ltd.  
Suite 304 - 700 West Pender Street  

Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada 
V6C 1G8 

 
Effective date: September 05, 2011 

Author 
Michael Moore, P. Geo. 



Gold Summit Project, September 2011 

Havilah Mines Ltd. 

2 
M Moore  P. Geo 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 
Page 

1.0 SUMMARY. ……………….…………………………………………………………..…....… 4 
 
2.0 INTRODUCTION AND TERMS OF REFERENCE………….…………...………………….7 
 
3.0 RELIANCE ON OTHER EXPERTS……..…………………….….……………………………9 
 
4.0 PROPERTY DESCRIPTION AND LOCATION……………………...………………………  10 
 
5.0 ACCESS, CLIMATE, LOCAL RESOURCES INFRASTRUCTURE PHYSIOGRAPHY.............…..15 
 
6.0 HISTORY………………………………….……………………………………………..……..17 
 
7.0 GEOLOGIC SETTING & MINERALIZATION………………………….…………………... 25 
 
8.0 DEPOSIT TYPE..……………………………….………………………...……………...……. 34 
 
9.0 EXPLORATION……………………….…….………………………………….…………….. 35 
 
10.0 DRILLING ………………………………….………………………………….…………….. 37 
 
11.0 SAMPLE PREPARATION, ANALYSES AND SECURITY …………………………………38 
 
12.0 DATA VERIFICATION/Quality Assurance/Quality Control……………………………..…....42 
 
13.0 MINERAL PROCESSING & METALLURGICAL TESTING………..……………………....43 
 
14.0 MINERAL RESOURCE ESTIMATES..…...……..........................................….......….....……43 
 
15.0 MINERAL RESERVE ESTIMATES……………………...……......……...............................….43 
 
16.0 MINING METHODS................................................................................................................….43 
 
17.0 RECOVERY METHODS ........................................................................................................….43 
 
18.0 PROJECT INFRASTRUCTURE..............................................................................................….43 
 
19.0 MARKET STUDIES & CONTRACTS....................................................................................….43 
 
20.0 ENVIRNOMENTAL STIDIES, PERMITTING, & SOCIAL-COMMUNITY IMPACT.......….43 
 
21.0 CAPITAL & OPERATING COSTS .......................................................................…..…............43 
 
22.0 ECONONMIC ANALYASIS..................................................................…………....…...............43 
 
23.0 ADJACENT PROPERTIES.........................................................................…………..…............43 



Gold Summit Project, September 2011 

Havilah Mines Ltd. 

3 
M Moore  P. Geo 

 
24.0 OTHER RELEVANT DATA AND INFORMATION...............................………….....………..43 
 
25.0 INTERPRETATION AND CONCLUSIONS ..........................................…………......………...45 
 
26.0 RECOMMENDATIONS ………....................................................................………...………....46 
 
27.0 REFERENCES....................................................................………………………...………........48 
 
28.0 AUTHOR CERTIFICATE AND SIGNATURE .........................................................………..…50 
 
 

LIST OF TABLES 
 
Table 4.2 Property Claim Statistics………….……......................................................................…….11 
Table 6.0 Exploration Summary……….…….……......................................................................…….17 
Table 7.1 Regional BC Minfile Occurrences…………………………………………………………..26 
Table 9.0 Havilah 2011 Exploration Expenditures ……………...………....………….........................35 
Table 26.0 Proposed Exploration Budget….....................................................………..................……47 
 
 

LIST OF FIGURES 
 
Figure 4.1 Location Map……………………...............................................................................…….12 
Figure 4.2 Claim Map ………………………………..……………...…………..........................…….13 
Figure 6.0 Historical Exploration Compilation Map.....................................................................…….18 
Figure 7.1 Regional Geology Map..............................................................................................………27 
Figure 7.2b Local Geology Map..............................................................................................…...……29 
Figure 7.2b Gold in Soil Compilation.........................................................................................………32 
 

APPENDICES 
 
Appendix A  2011 SJ Geophysics Geophysical Survey Figures  
Appendix B  Author Site Examination Sample Analyses Certificates and Sample Descriptions 



Gold Summit Project, September 2011 

Havilah Mines Ltd. 

4 
M Moore  P. Geo 

1.0 SUMMARY 
 
This technical report summarizes known information pertaining to the early stage Gold Summit 
mineral exploration venture. The report describes the underlying geology of the project area, 
summarizes the property"s exploration history, reviews the nature of property gold and subordinate 
base metal mineralization and makes recommendations for further exploration. The report was 
prepared at the request of Havilah Mines Ltd. ("Havilah") and was written under the guidelines of 
Canadian National Instrument 43-101.  
 
The Gold Summit property hosts mesothermal polymetallic gold-enriched quartz lode vein/shear 
mineralization. The property is located in southwest British Columbia, Canada, approximately 185 
kilometres north of Vancouver. The claims lie within the Bridge River Mining District, which hosts 
the prolific Bralorne-Pioneer gold-silver mines. Reported historical production of the Bralorne-Pioneer 
camp is about 4.15 million ounces of gold and 0.95 million ounces of silver. 
 
The property consists of a single contiguous claim block of eleven mineral claims, covering 3,201.29 
hectares or 7,910.28 acres. All but three of the Gold Summit claims are 100% owned by St. Elias 
Mines Ltd ("St. Elias"), Havilah"s parent company. A 15% interest in three of the property"s core 
claims is owned by the public company Chi Cha Na Mining Inc. The St. Elias board of directors have 
decided to "spin-out" the company"s British Columbia mineral assets into a separate and new public 
company, namely Havilah Mines Ltd. The Gold Summit is one of these spin out properties. Upon 
completion of the arrangement, Havilah will acquire all of St. Elias" interests in the spin-off BC 
properties (including the Gold Summit) and each St. Elias shareholder, other than a dissenting 
shareholder, will acquire one New St. Elias Share and one-twentieth of one Havilah share for each 
share held. The new St. Elias shares will be identical to the present shares. 
 
The property is best accessed by a combination of paved and gravel roads from either Bralorne or 
Lillooet, about 25 km east or 50 km west of the claims, respectively. The closest full service 
community, providing extensive infrastructure and skilled manpower is Lillooet. An electrical power 
line passes through the south end of the property. Access to the central and south portions of the 
property is first by the Marshall Lake forest gravel road and then by a web of dirt-logging roads. Quad 
motorcycle is the best on-site method of transport. 
 
To date, no British Columbia Provincial work permits have been applied for, nor have been required to 
conduct the type of mineral exploration work conducted on the mineral claims so far. Future larger 
scale exploration programs will require BC Provincial permits, cash bonding and First Nation 
consultations to proceed. To the best of the author"s knowledge there are no existing environmental 
liabilities for the property.  
 
There are no First Nations reserves located on or in the immediate proximity of the Gold Summit 
property. However, the property is located within an overlap area of the traditional lands of four First 
Nation Indian Bands: Bridge River, T"it"q"et, Tsilhqot"in and Canoe Creek. The British Columbia 
Treaty Negotiations with the Canoe Creek Nation is currently at stage 4 (agreement-in-principle 
negotiations stage) of the six-staged process and has no definitive time line to completion. The Bridge 
River, T"it"q"et and Tsilhqot"in First Nations are not part of the BC Treaty process. Both provincial 
and federal government representatives are working to build relationships with the various Tribal 



Gold Summit Project, September 2011 

Havilah Mines Ltd. 

5 
M Moore  P. Geo 

Councils outside of the British Columbia Treaty Commission six-stage treaty process. The current 
status and potential resolutions of these non-BC Treaty consultations are unknown to the author.  
 
The claims cover the eastern and northern extents of Marshall Ridge, which rises from about 654 m at 
Carpenter Lake to a peak of 1628 m. The ridge is moderately steep and covered by thick stands of fir 
and pine trees. A relatively thin veneer of overburden covers much of the property; thickening at lower 
elevations. Exploration efforts are generally restricted the snow free months of May through October. 
The property lies within the Southern Interior Forest Region, Lillooet Timber Supply Area of the 
British Columbia Ministry of Forests.  
 
Regionally, the Gold Summit property is located in the Bridge River Complex (Permian (?) to Jurassic 
age), which is comprised of variably metamorphosed and structurally imbricated cherts, mafic 
extrusive and intrusive rocks, limestone, serpentinite and clastic rocks. The Bridge River Complex is 
at the western margin of the Intermontaine Belt (volcanic and sedimentary rocks), where it abuts 
against the Coastal Plutonic Complex (plutonic and metamorphic rocks). In the region, Mississippian 
to Triassic arc volcanics and backarc sediments (Cadwallader Group and Bridge River Complex) are 
intruded by synvolcanic, intermediate plutons (Bralorne Intrusions) and faulted against Permian aged 
ophiolitic, ultramafic intrusions (Shuslaps Ultramafic Complex).  
 
On a local scale, the Gold Summit property is dominantly underlain by NW-SE trending Bridge River 
Complex rocks. The Bridge River Complex mainly includes prehnite-pumpellyite metamorphic grade 
chert and greenstone volcanics, with interbedded sediments and volcanics and volcaniclastics. The 
Bridge River Group has been intruded by Eocene feldspar porphyry dacites and breccias. The most 
abundant rocks exposed on the property are dark coloured argillites, with lesser grey weathered cherts 
and pillow basalts. 
 
The property has been explored intermittently since 1907. Early 20th century exploration efforts were 
dominated by physical work; including property access roads, two short adits and some surface 
trenching. During the early 1980s, early 1990s and late 2000s, a number of junior exploration 
companies carried out both reconnaissance level and detailed exploration campaigns. Collectively, 
these campaigns included airborne geophysics, prospecting and grid based soil sampling, geological 
mapping, ground geophysics, mechanized trenching and, perhaps up to nine drill holes. 
 
The Gold Summit property hosts a number of roughly east trending and vertical to steep north dipping 
shear hosted, mesothermal gold-silver  polymetallic quartz vein occurrences. Historical exploration 
efforts have identified a lengthy quartz vein/shear (Adit Zone) and several other less extensive quartz 
veins/shears. In many cases, the veins are masked by overburden and are structurally offset. The Adit 
Zone hosts the property"s main surface occurrence of quartz-sulphide vein mineralization. This 
showing is part of a gold-enriched east-west trending structure has been traced on surface for a 
distance of approximately 450 metres, varying in width from 0.25 metres to about 2.0 metres; with dip 
orientations ranging from 30  north to vertical. Historical reports indicate that select high-grade Adit 
Zone quartz vein samples can yield gold assays of greater than 1.0 opt. However, the gold-enriched 
vein-shear material typically reports gold values on the order of 0.1 to 0.3 opt gold.  
 
1998 trenching uncovered a large feldspar porphyry dike with pervasive disseminated pyrite, from 
which rock samples reported low gold values (high of 1.0ppm over 1.4m). This feldspar porphyry and 
others mapped in the property are additional and intriguing low-grade bulk tonnage gold targets. 



Gold Summit Project, September 2011 

Havilah Mines Ltd. 

6 
M Moore  P. Geo 

 
During the months of July to August 2011, Havilah completed a detailed exploration program on the 
central part of the property. The dominant focus of this program was to test the effectiveness of three 
types of ground geophysical surveys for mapping rock types and defining potential shear bound 
mineralization. A total of twenty line kilometres of cut control grid line (10 lines) was established and 
was entirely surveyed with both magnetics and horizontal loop EM. A 3D inversion induced 
polarization test survey covered the north half of the survey area (five lines for 10 km). A total of 188 
soil samples were collected on along a dirt access road just south the grid area, following the contours 
of the south slope of Marshall Ridge. The exploration program was completed at a total cost of 
$136,418.  
 
A compilation of property gold in soil values shows the centre of the property hosts a broad and open-
ended northeast-southwest trending gold anomaly measuring up to 750 metres wide by more than 
2,000 metres long. Within this large gold anomaly, using a strong east to west contouring bias, are at 
least six loosely defined narrow linear zones which stand out as particularly anomalous in gold.   
 
In combination, the three 2011 geophysical surveys have defined a large, open ended, northeast to east 
trending geophysically anomalous zone which is loosely coincident with the property"s main gold in 
soil anomaly. This composite geophysical zone is best defined by IP chargeability, together with 
secondary features including elevated magnetics and a weak horizontal loop EM conductor. The 
anomalous zone measures at least 400m long by up to 800m wide. The IP chargeability anomaly 
strongly trends off the northeast limit of the survey area and is apparently narrowing to the southwest. 
The geophysical surveys did not definitively identify or assist in the extension of the property"s 
historical gold mineralization hosted in east-west trending narrow shear structures. This newly 
identified geophysical zone is a new and intriguing exploration target and is an appealing addition to 
the property"s established shear-hosted high grade gold quartz vein targets.  
 
The report author inspected the property on July 09, 2011. The independent property audit includes a 
project site examination, review of property geology, styles of mineralization-alteration and rock 
sample collection. The author reports that, overall, geology, mineralization and showings referred to in 
the historical records are genuine. Independent rock samples collected by the author have confirmed 
the polymetallic nature of the historically reported mineralization. Silver, base metal and pathfinder 
element concentrations are coincidently anomalous with gold enrichment. A coarse grain gold or 
nugget effect has been identified by both the author"s and various historical sampling.  
 
It is recommended herein that Havilah carry out additional exploration efforts on the Gold Summit 
property. At an estimated cost of $250,000 the Phase One program should focus on expanding the 
2011 grid both to the northeast and southwest. Experienced geologists should detail geological map 
and prospect the entire grid and soil samples should be collected from those areas which have no 
existing coverage. The newly established grid should be geophysically surveyed by magnetics & VLF-
EM and also 3D inversion induced polarization. The property non-grid areas should be detailed 
prospected and sampled with the goal of identifying new gold targets, either structurally bound or 
porphyry related.  
 
The size and scope of the phase two program, consisting primarily of trenching and diamond drilling 
priority targets, would be contingent on the results of Phase One explorations.  A preliminary budget 
of $1.2 million is suggested. 



Gold Summit Project, September 2011 

Havilah Mines Ltd. 

7 
M Moore  P. Geo 

2.0 INTRODUCTION AND TERMS OF REFERENCE 
2.1 Introduction 
 
This technical report summarizes the exploration history and geological information pertaining to the 
early staged Gold Summit Project. The property is located in southwest British Columbia Canada, 
approximately 185 km north of Vancouver. The claims are situated within the Bridge River Mining 
Camp, which hosts the prolific Bralorne-Goldbridge gold-silver mines. Past property exploration 
efforts have focused on eastward trending, shear-hosted, mesothermal, polymetallic, gold enriched 
quartz veins. The Gold Summit property hosts numerous under-explored auriferous targets. 
 
Havilah Mines Ltd. controls the mineral rights to the Gold Summit property, via a "spin out" 
agreement with its parent company St. Elias Mines. Recommendations contained herein are for a 
preliminary Stage One exploration program including grid expansion, soil & rock sampling, ground 
geophysical surveys and detailed geological mapping and prospecting. Priority exploration targets 
indentified would then be the focus of the recommended Phase Two program.  
 
2.2 Terms of Reference 
 
Lori McClenahan, president of Havilah Mines Ltd requested the author review the Gold Summit 
Project and prepare a technical summary for the property. This report has been prepared under the 
guidelines of Canadian National Instrument 43-101 ("NI 43-101") and is to be submitted as a 
Technical Report to the TSX.V stock exchange ("TSX.V") and the BC Securities Commission 
("BCSC"). Havilah is a private British Columbia registered company, with an office at #304-700 West 
Pender Street, Vancouver BC V6C 1G8. The company is currently seeking public status by registering 
on the TSX.V exchange. This report fulfils a portion of the requirements for listing and posting its 
common shares for trading.  
 
St. Elias Mines Ltd. ("St. Elias") is a public company with shares trading on the TSX Venture 
Exchange (symbol: SLI).  St. Elias is a British Columbia registered company with an office at #304-
700 West Pender Street, Vancouver BC V6C 1G8. Lori McClenahan is a Director, President, and CEO 
of St. Elias. Lloyd Brewer is Exploration Manager for the company. Tina Whyte is the company 
corporate secretary.  
 
Chai Cha Na Mining Inc ("CCN") is a public CSNX listed company (symbol: CNN) with offices at 
3045 South Creek Road - Unit 11, Mississauga, Ontario L4X 2E9. The property"s recent option 
agreement between CCN and Madman Mining Inc. (a private BC registered company controlled by 
Lloyd Brewer) has expired, with CCN having earned a 15% interest in three of the property"s claims. 
The 15% interest is held in trust for CCN by Lloyd Brewer.  
 
The purpose of the "Arrangement Agreement" is to spin-out select St. Elias mineral property interests 
into a separate and new public company, namely Havilah Mines Ltd.  The Arrangement will separate 
from St. Elias mineral properties located in British Columbia Canada. The Gold Summit is one of 
these spin out properties.  
  
All currencies are in Canadian dollar denominations and measurements are in metric units (unless 
noted otherwise). The author has reviewed the geologic data provided by Havilah and St. Elias. While 
visiting the property in July 2011, M. Moore examined select showings and reviewed the historically 
reported styles of mineralization and alteration. 



Gold Summit Project, September 2011 

Havilah Mines Ltd. 

8 
M Moore  P. Geo 

 
2.3 Purpose of Report 
 
The purpose of this report is to submit an independent evaluation of the exploration potential of the 
Gold Summit Project and to summarize the underlying data from which that assessment is made. 
Recommendations are made herein to undertake further exploration in order to determine the extent of 
mineralization currently known on the property. The report conforms to the guidelines of Canadian 
National Instrument NI 43-101. 
 
2.4 Sources of Information 
 
Sources of information utilized in the creation of this report include exploration, geological and other 
reports available in the public record and from private corporate files. Where cited, references are 
referred to in the text by author and date. Complete references are provided in Section 27. This report 
particularly relies on the information contained in published British Columbia Government reports and 
maps and also BC Government A.R.I.S. Assessment Report files. The author has also used data 
recently gained by the Havilah 2011 summer exploration program. Recommendations made herein are 
based primarily on these reports.  
 
The author conducted a research study of all available reports, publications and other documented 
results concerning the project.  These studies were undertaken through via various British Columbia & 
Canadian Government websites and company specific searches on SEDAR.  The author has had 
conversations with Havilah"s principals and its legal counsel regarding the property"s corporate files 
and also regarding Havilah"s plans for the Property.  
 
2.5 Field Examination 
 
The author of this report, Michael Moore P. Geo, conducted a field visit to the Gold Summit property 
on July 09, 2011. The following objectives were accomplished: project site examination, inspection of 
select showings and a review of geology and styles of mineralization and alteration reported in the 
historical records. The author believes that sufficient sites of significance where inspected to make a 
quality assessment of the Gold Summit property. Note that the author did complete an earlier property 
inspection on September 03, 2004 as part of a previous technical report (Moore 2007).    
 
2.6 Definitions 
 
cm  centimetre(s)    ft   feet 
DDH   diamond drill hole (core)  FA   fire assay 
in.   inch(es)    kg   kilogram 
km  kilometre(s)    lb   pound 
ton (s)  imperial short ton   tonnes  metric ton 
m  metre(s)    mi   miles 
Ma  millions of years   oz Au/t  ounces of gold per short ton 
opt  ounces per ton    ppb   parts per billion 
ppm   parts per million   gpt  grams per tonne 
 
Outcrop: a surface exposure of bedrock  



Gold Summit Project, September 2011 

Havilah Mines Ltd. 

9 
M Moore  P. Geo 

 

Subcrop: a poor exposure of bedrock, which is not fully in place 
 

Float: rock found on surface from an undetermined bedrock source 
 

Silt or stream sediment sample: transported fine materials collected from a stream or river drainage for 
the purposes of regional reconnaissance geochemical surveying. 
 

Adit: An opening driven horizontally into the side of a mountain or hill for providing access to 
mineralization. 
 
All currencies are in Canadian dollar denominations and measurements are in metric units (unless 
noted otherwise). 
 
 
3.0 RELIANCE ON OTHER EXPERTS 
 
The author has relied on both private corporate and publicly available information on the Gold Summit 
Project. Critical components include historical property assessment reports, company, BC and 
Canadian Federal Government publications and websites. The author has reviewed the private and 
public data and believes them to be accurate and reliable in their collection, disclosure and analysis of 
results and therefore can be relied upon and can be used for project evaluation and determination of 
value of the project. In the few cases of uncertainty, the author has qualified that information with 
accompanying clarification and explanation. 
 
The author, not an expert in legal matters, is required by NI 43-101 to include a description of the 
property title, terms of legal agreements and related information in Section 4.2 of this report. The 
author has relied on property agreement information provided by St. Elias and claim information from 
British Columbia Mineral Titles Office in order to provide summaries of title, ownership and related 
information. The property agreements and other relevant legal documents were prepared or reviewed 
by St. Elias and Havilah legal counsels. The author has relied on the expert opinion and documents 
provided by Tina Whyte (St. Elias corporate secretary) in these matters; via emails and personnel 
conversations in July-August 2011. A careful review of the Gold Summit claim title information was 
conducted by the author on July 19, 2011, via the British Columbia Mineral Titles inquiry website. 
The results of this review are discussed in Section 4.2 of this report. An independent verification of 
land title and tenure was not performed and as such this report does not represent a legal title opinion.  
 
Copies of invoices for exploration work carried out by Havilah in the summer of 2011 have been 
supplied to the author by the company. A review of these invoices confirms that a total of $136,418 
has been spent on the Property from early July to mid-August 2011 (see Section 9 for more details).   



Gold Summit Project, September 2011 

Havilah Mines Ltd. 

10 
M Moore  P. Geo 

4.0 PROPERTY DESCRIPTIONS AND LOCATIONS 
 
4.1 Area and Location 
 
The Gold Summit property is located in the southwestern British Columbia, Canada, approximately 
185 km north of Vancouver. The property is centred approximately 50 km west of the community of 
Lillooet; at latitude 50o 53' 30" North and longitude 122o 31' 30" West (UTM Zone 10 (NAD 83): 
0534000E/5637000N) on NTS maps 092J15E & 16W (or BCGS Maps 092J/088 & 098) (Figure 4.1). 
The property is approximately 90 km north of Whistler or approximately 155 kilometres west of 
Kamloops. 
 
The claims are 25 km northeast of the Bralorne-Pioneer gold mines; historical production of the camp 
is reported at about 4.15 million ounces of gold and 0.95 million ounces of silver from 7.9 million tons 
of ore, for a recovered grade of 0.53 oz / ton (Howlett 2003). 
 
4.2 Claims and Title 
 
The Gold Summit property consists of a single contiguous claim block of eleven mineral claims, 
covering 3,201.29 hectares or 7,910.28 acres, plus a single underlying placer claim covering 61.19 
hectares (Figure 4.2). The individual claim statistics are summarized in Table 4.2. The claims do not 
have to be legally surveyed as they were staked via the BC Ministry of Energy and Mines mineral 
titles online system. The property claims (both mineral and placer) have a common good standing date 
of Dec 15, 2011. Exploration work recently completed by Havilah, once accepted by BC government 
regulators, will increase the mineral claim"s good to date. The surface rights holder for the land 
covered by the Gold Summit claims are property of the "Crown", i.e. the Province of British Columbia 
(notwithstanding the ongoing First Nation treaty negotiations).   
 
By virtue of the Mineral Tenure Act of the Province of British Columbia, Havilah has the right to 
access for the purposes of conducting mineral exploration the land it has staked. 
 
The sole registered owner for all but three of the Gold Summit claims is St. Elias Mines Ltd; Havilah"s 
parent company. A 15% interest in three of the property"s core claims (550299, 550300 and 550301) is 
owned by the public company Chi Cha Na Mining Inc ("CCN"). The property"s last option agreement 
between CCN and Madman Mining has expired, with CCN having earned a 15% interest in these three 
property claims. The 15% interest is held in trust for CCN by Lloyd Brewer.  
 
The St. Elias board of directors concluded that the recent market price of the shares of St. Elias did not 
adequately reflect the underlying value of its British Columbia mineral properties (including the Gold 
Summit) and therefore decided to "spin-out" these assets into a new company; namely Havilah Mines 
Ltd. The spin-out agreement arrangement allows Havilah to focus on financing and developing the 
spin-out properties separately from St. Elias" other mineral properties, while reducing stock dilution 
for shareholders interested in St. Elias" assets located in Peru. Upon completion of the arrangement, 
Havilah will acquire all of St. Elias" interests in the spin-off BC properties (including the Gold 
Summit) and each St. Elias shareholder, other than a dissenting shareholder, will ultimately acquire 
one New St. Elias Share and one-twentieth of one Havilah share for each share held.  The New St. 
Elias shares will be identical to the present shares. 
 



Gold Summit Project, September 2011 

Havilah Mines Ltd. 

11 
M Moore  P. Geo 

 
 
Table 4.2: Gold Summit Property Claim Statistics 
 

Mineral Tenure 
Number 

Issue Date Good To 
Date* 

Area (ha) 

550299 Jan. 26, 2007 Dec 15, 2011 285.53 
550300 Jan. 26, 2007 Dec 15, 2011 856.57 
550301 Jan. 26, 2007 Dec 15, 2011 61.16 
604792 May 21, 2009 Dec 15, 2011 81.56 
606195 June 16, 2009 Dec 15, 2011 122.41 
735122 March 26, 2010 Dec 15, 2011 203.84 
735142 March 26, 2010 Dec 15, 2011 203.82 
735783 March 27, 2010 Dec 15, 2011 101.89 
735803 March 27, 2010 Dec 15, 2011 285.25 
740362 April 04, 2010 Dec 15, 2011 489.44 
748682 April15, 2010 Dec 15, 2011 509.82 

  Total Area 3,201.29 

 
 

Placer Tenure 
Number 

Issue Date Good To 
Date 

Area (ha) 

740382 April 04, 2010 Dec 15, 2011 61.19 
 
* - The Good to Date does not reflect the recent assessment exploration work completed in July-August 2011.  
Registered claim owner for all claims is 100% St. Elias Mines Ltd, except for claims 550299-550301, which are 15% 
owned by Chi Cha Na Mining Inc. The claims are located in on BCGS maps 092K.084 & 099. 
 

NOTE: The claim information of Table 4.2 is not a legal title opinion but is a compilation of claims data based 

on the author's review of the government of the British Columbia Mineral rights inquiry web site (July 19, 

2011).  

 
In order to maintain the Gold Summit Property mineral tenures in good standing with respect to the 
Provincial Government of British Columbia, certain annual cash payments (cash in lieu of work) or 
equivalent exploration expenses in on-the-ground based exploration work must be applied to the 
claims (supported by comprehensive assessment reports in the case of exploration work). Expenses 
from valid exploration programs can be applied to the mineral titles within one calendar year of when 
the work was performed and can extend the expiration dates of the property for up to a maximum of 
ten years.  



Havialh Mines

Map Base NAD 83

Carpenter Lake

FIGURE 4.1Date: August 2011

Havilah Mining Ltd.

Gold Summit Project
Southwest British Columbia, Canada

LOCATION MAP





Gold Summit Project, September 2011 

Havilah Mines Ltd. 

14 
M Moore  P. Geo 

4.3 Environmental Liability, Permits, Bonds & other Significant Risk Factors 
 
The author, not an expert in political, environmental and societal matters, is required by NI 43-101 to 
comment on the environmental, permitting, First Nation treaty negotiations, social and community 
factors related to the project. To this end, the author has relied on British Columbia and Federal 
publications, reports and websites, guidance by Havilah and its legal counsel and BC government 
representatives and also a general working knowledge of the mineral exploration industry in British 
Columbia. The author has reviewed these data and believes them to be accurate and reliable in their 
collection and disclosure. 
 
In general, exploration, development and mining projects in British Columbia require a high level of 
environmental and societal conscientiousness. Therefore all of Havilah"s future work must bear this 
high standard in-mind.  
 
To the best of the author"s knowledge there are no existing environmental liabilities for the property, 
as the Gold Summit property is an early stage exploration venture and has seen only minor historical 
work. During the author"s 2011 and 2004 property visits, a number of historic trench sites, road cuts 
and small adits of the "Adit Zone" (including both the Upper and Lower Adits) were visited. Many of 
the 1990"s era trenches are partially collapsed or slumped in. The Upper Adit appears to be in good 
shape, although the portal of the Lower Adit is completely soil covered by a small landslide.  
 
No exploration permits or reclamation bonds are in place for future large scale mineral exploration. 
Past work completed by St Elias has had very limited surface disturbance and therefore no BC 
Provincial exploration work permits have been applied for, nor required. When larger scale 
exploration program are contemplated for the property, work permits, cash reclamation bonding and 
First Nations consultations will be required. No archaeological studies have been carried out at Gold 
Summit. All exploration and development permits for the Gold Summit project would be issued by the 
regional office of the Southwest Region of the B.C. Ministry of Energy, Mines and Petroleum 
Resources, in Victoria.  
 
There are no First Nations reserves located on or immediate proximity of the Gold Summit property.  
The property is located within an overlap area of the traditional lands of four First Nation Indian 
Bands, detailed in the following table.  
 

First Nation Indian Band Organization Treaty Status Office Location 

Bridge River  
(Nxwísten & Xwisten) 

St'at'imc or Lillooet Tribal Council not part of the 
BC treaty process 

Lillooet 

T'it'q'et  
(T'it'k't or Tl'itl'ikt) 

St'at'imc or Lillooet Tribal Council not part of the 
BC treaty process 

Lillooet 

Tsilhqot'in 
(Chilcotin, Tsilhqut'in, Tŝinlhqot'in, 
Chilkhodin, Tsilkótin, Tsilkotin) 

Toosey (or Tl'esqoxt'in) Indian Band 
(formerly the Anaham Indian Band) 
Carrier Chilcotin Tribal Council 

not part of the 
BC treaty process 

Riske Creek 
Williams Lake 

  

Canoe Creek (Stswecem'c)  
 & also Dog Creek 

Northern Secwepemc (Shuswap) 
Tribal Council  & Canoe Creek 

Stage Four Williams Lake 
Dog Creek 

 
The British Columbia Treaty Negotiations with the Canoe Creek Nation is currently at stage 4 
(agreement-in-principle negotiations stage) of the six-staged process and has no definitive time line to 
completion. The author is not aware of any conclusive publically available final agreement details. 
There are now 60 First Nations participating in the BC treaty process; because some First Nations 



Gold Summit Project, September 2011 

Havilah Mines Ltd. 

15 
M Moore  P. Geo 

negotiate at a common table, there are 49 sets of negotiations. There are 43 First Nations in Stage 4 
agreement-in-principle negotiations level.  
 
The Bridge River, T"it"q"et and Tsilhqot"in First Nations are not part of the BC Treaty process. Both 
provincial and federal government representatives are working to build relationships with the Lillooet 
and Carrier Chilcotin Tribal Councils outside of the British Columbia Treaty Commission six-stage 
treaty process. The current status and possible resolutions of these non-BC Treaty consultations are 
unknown to the author. The key federal government agency dealing with treaty rights and negotiations 
is Aboriginal Affairs and Northern Development Canada (AANDC).  
 
To the best of the author"s knowledge, there has been no past consultation with the First Nation Bands 
for any of the Gold Summit exploration work. Federal and Provincial governments have indicated that 
explorationists have "a duty to consult First Nations peoples and accommodate their concerns". In 
keeping with this initiative, governments strongly recommend that mining companies maintain dialog 
with local First Nation communities so activities can be coordinated to avoid any conflict with 
exploration and related activities. During the permitting stage of any proposed work, Havilah should 
notify and consult with the various First Nations of its plans via written, phone and/or direct 
correspondence. At the initial stages, these consultations should be conducted in concert with BC 
Ministry of Energy, Mines and Petroleum Resources mineral exploration permitting personnel, so as to 
simplify and speed the process and also to avoid duplicative efforts. The author recommends that these 
First Nation notifications occur on a regular basis, so as to help to foster a good relationship and also 
that Havilah keep comprehensive records of the timing and details of all communications. 
Additionally, Havilah should consider offering seasonal exploration related employment to qualified 
band members when practical and appropriate.  
 
The author is not aware of any significant risks or uncertainties or any reasonably foreseeable impacts 
thereof that could reasonably be expected to affect the Gold Summit project future potential, other 
than uncertainties related the ongoing First Nation treaty negotiations.   
 
 
 5.0 Accessibility, Climate, Local Resources, Infrastructure, Physiography (Figures 4.1 & 4.2) 
 
The Gold Summit property is located in south western interior of British Columbia, Canada, 
approximately 185 km north of Vancouver. The property is best accessed by a combination of paved 
and gravel roads from either Bralorne or Lillooet, about 25 km east or 50 km west of the claims, 
respectively. Paved highway #40 follows the north shore of Carpenter Lake passing through the south 
end of the property. Access to the central and south portions of the property is first by the Marshall 
Lake forestry access gravel road and then by a web of dirt-logging roads, which cut through the 
southern parts of the property. Many of the roads are two-wheel drive accessible, but only in ideal 
weather conditions; quad motorcycle is the best on-site method of transport. A few old four-wheel 
drive access roads also criss-cross the property but are now over grown by young vegetation and are 
infrequently eroded. These roads can be easily rehabilitated with minimal heavy equipment efforts. 
 
The closest full service community, providing extensive infrastructure and skilled manpower is 
Lillooet, although Bralorne can also provide acceptable exploration program necessities. 
Accommodations available include two hotels in Gold Bridge and Tyax Lodge (north of Gold Bridge). 
There are many user-maintained campsites located on lakes and rivers in the vicinity as well. The 



Gold Summit Project, September 2011 

Havilah Mines Ltd. 

16 
M Moore  P. Geo 

Carol and Marshall Lake camp sites are conveniently located within close proximity the property, 
offering decent short term camping accommodations. A major electrical power line cuts through the 
south end of the property. The elevated central region of the property has no immediately accessible 
water to facilitate exploration efforts. Most water will have to be trucked or pumped from either 
Carpenter Lake or Marshall Creek (and its tributaries) to accommodate drilling programs in this 
region. 
 
The property lies within the Southern Interior Forest Region, Lillooet Timber Supply Area of the 
British Columbia Ministry of Forests. Havilah should consult with both the BC Ministry of Forests 
and the company with local timber rights before accessing the local logging roads, whether active or 
in-active.  
 
The claims cover the eastern extent of Marshall Ridge, which is bound to the north by Marshall Creek 
and to the south by Carpenter Lake. The glacially derived ridge rises from about 654 m (2145 feet) at 
Carpenter Lake to a high point of 1628 m (5340 feet), on the top of Marshall Ridge. The ridge is 
moderately steep and is generally accessible by heavy earth moving equipment. The ridge top is 
largely flat. The northern limit of the property extends through the Marshall Creel Valley and includes 
a small portion of a southern slope of the Shulaps Range Mountains.  
 
The property is covered by thick stands of fir and pine trees. Vegetation can be dense at lower 
elevations, making walking difficult. Deadfall trees and ground level debris are also abundant. 
Overburden cover is extensive and commonly shallow at less then one metre, but can be locally 
greater than five metres. Soils contain a well-developed red-brown coloured B-horizon (Sampson 
1988). Recent work by Thom (2010) has confirmed that the property is blanketed by a thin (< a few 
cm) layer of grey-white volcanic ash, located about 10-15 cm from surface.  
 
The property climate is typical of the south central Coast Mountain region of British Columbia, being 
generally free of snow from early May through October. The closest community for which the 
Government of Canada weather website (weatheroffice.ec.gc.ca) reports weather statistics which are 
most likely to be similar to the property is Whistler. Whistler"s average yearly rainfall is about 850 
mm; the months from October to February experience the most precipitation. Average annual snowfall 
in the area is about 411cm. An extensive snow pack on the Gold Summit claims will prohibit most 
winter work, particularly on those portions of the property at higher elevations. Summers are 
temperate, with average daytime temperatures from 6oC to 16 oC (extreme summer high: ~38 oC). 
During the winter, the average daytime temperatures range from 0 oC to -4 oC (extreme winter low: -
30oC).  
 
 



Gold Summit Project, September 2011 

Havilah Mines Ltd. 

17 
M Moore  P. Geo 

6.0 HISTORY  
 
The following exploration history of the Gold Summit property is largely compiled from BC 
government assessment reports prepared by Landsburg 1981, White 1982, Sampson 1988, Miller-Tait 
(1990 (a-c) & 1994) and Thom 2008 & 2010. The author has endeavoured to compile a complete 
database of all property exploration, but unfortunately comprehensive reports for the many older 
exploration programs are incomplete, unavailable or lost. As such, the author makes no representation 
as to whether the following historical information is complete or wholly accurate, but overall believes 
the information presented herein to be reliable. See Figure 6.0 Property Compilation Map.  
 
Table 6.0   Exploration Summary 

Year Company Geochemistry Geophysics Trenching Drilling Other Reference 
1907-1912 "Summit & 

Paymuck" 

- - - - Upper & 

Lower adits 

BC Dept. Mines 

1907 & 1912 

1944 Bridge River 

Exploration 

- - - - Road, adit 

extension, 

trenching 

Sampson 1988 

 

1980 Quinto 

Mining 

Corporation 

- - - - Physical work 

Roads etc.  

Sampson 1988 

 

1981 Quinto 

Mining 

Corporation 

956 soil 

66 rock 

Grids Q1 –Q4 

Airborne and 

ground  Mag & 

VLF-EM 

- - - Sampson 1988 

Landsberg 1981 

White 1981 

1982 Quinto 

Mining 

Corporation 

- IP Survey  

Grids: Q2 &  

Q4 

- 3 DDH? - Sampson 1988 

 

1988 Gold Summit 

Mines 

988 soil Airborne Mag & 

VLF-EM 

- - - Brewer 1988 

 

1990 Gold Summit 

Mines 

346 rock 

647 soil 

- 28 trenches - - Millar-Tait 

1990(a-c) 

1994 Gold Summit 

Mines 

178 soil - 10 trenches 6 holes:  

984m 

- Millar-Tait & 

Church 1994 

2007 Madman 

Mining Ltd 

10 rock - - - - Moore 2004-7 

43-101 report 

2008 Chi Cha Na 

Mining 

500 soil - - - - Thom 2008 

2010 Chi Cha Na 

Mining 

248 soil 

3 rock 

- - - - Thom 2010 

2011 Havilah 

Mines Ltd. 

188 soil 

12 rock 

Mag, Max-

Min, 3D-IP 

- - - Havilah 2011 

  



Chi Cha Na

Chi Cha Na



Gold Summit Project, September 2011 

Havilah Mines Ltd. 

19 
M Moore  P. Geo 

1907 to 1912 
The earliest report of a mineral enriched vein discovery comes from the 1907 British Columbia 
Department of Mines Annual Report, which indicates that the Gold Summit property was first known 
as both the Summit and Paymuck. The report states that a galena, gold and silver enriched vein was 
traced for 1000 feet (304 metres) on surface. A seventy-foot (21 metres) long adit (Upper Adit) was 
driven into the hillside falling short of the vein. In addition, a large north-south trending basic dyke 
was discovered and was reported to be related to several quartz veins carrying iron, zinc and lead 
sulphides with appreciable gold and silver values (Lower Adit). Over next few years, a number of 
attempts to intercept the quartz vein were made by extending the Upper Adit from an original easterly 
trend to north and then northeast. The main vein was finally encountered and a hand sorted 
mineralized vein sample was collected and assayed; reported results are "$8 gold, 2.2 opt silver and 
10% lead". The 1912 British Columbia Department of Mines Annual Report mentions limited work 
was carried out on the previously identified quartz-sulphide veins related to the basic dike and on 
another surface quartz-sulphide vein occurrence. Work was halted after it was concluded that 
identified mineralization was irregular and of limited size.  
 
1944 Bridge River Exploration 

The property lied dormant until 1944, when L. J. Russell prospected the property and discovered 
additional mineralized outcrops on the ridge near the old Summit workings (Upper and Lower adits). 
At this time, the claims were held by Bridge River Exploration Ltd. who carried out an additional 
limited program of road construction, adit extension and surface trenching on several quartz vein 
showings. The claims were later allowed to lapse.  
 
1980 to 1982 Quinto Mining Corporation 

The first modern "Marshall Ridge Area" exploration program was initiated by Quinto Mining 
Corporation (Vancouver BC) in 1980, when the company carried out the physical work of building 
and upgrading numerous property access roads. In June of 1981, Western Geophysical Aerodata Ltd. 
completed a 92-kilometre airborne magnetometer and VLF-EM survey over the general area of the 
Gold Summit property. The survey successfully outlined (a) the major Marshall Creek fault zone and 
(b) located four areas of coincident VLF-EM and magnetic anomalies. During the years of 1981 and 
1982, Quinto Mining focussed on four grid areas (Q1 to Q4) covering four airborne anomalies. The 
company carried out programs of ground geophysical programs (VLF-EM, magnetometer, IP) 
geochemical soil sampling, geological mapping and sampling of old workings. Sampson (1988) 
reports that, Quinto Mining may have drilled at least three holes in the Adit Zone area in 1982 or 1983, 
however the results and methodologies of drilling are unknown. Sampson did identify the locations of 
two old drill pads on the South Grid (Adit Zone): one drill pad is located on Line 21N at station 200W, 
the second on Line 22N at 150N. The drill pad on Line 21 was located by the author, while conducting 
a 2004 property exam. All that remains at the site are a few decayed and erratically filled core boxes. 
The author is unable to confirm the era of these core boxes (i.e. 1982 or 1994 drill programs?). 
 
Q1 Grid 
The Q1 grid was located on the northeast side of Marshall Creek over the confluence of Hog Creek. 
This grid is located on the north central portion of the Gold Summit property (claim 5503001). The 
grid covered an airborne EM-magnetic anomaly, where the northwest nose of a magnetic high 
intersected a broad EM conductor. These same features were defined by the ground geophysical 
surveys. The combined EM data reportedly suggested that a northerly trending fault intersects a zone 
of a magnetite bearing lithologies, perhaps an ultramafic (White 1980). Geochemical soil sample 



Gold Summit Project, September 2011 

Havilah Mines Ltd. 

20 
M Moore  P. Geo 

results identified no copper, silver or zinc anomalies, but did show a two-line gold anomaly down 
slope from some ancient workings; the B.C.T. 1 to 4 adits. These adits were driven on narrow, 
vertically dipping, weak fractures that trend about 160 . The dominant host rock is a siliceous 
schistose argillite, with weakly disseminated pyrite. All rock samples collected from these adits are 
reported to be sub-anomalous in base and precious metals. Quinto concluded that the source of the 
gold in-soil values came from an outcropping quartz vein in the north trending lineament. 
 
Q2 Grid 
The centre of the Q2 grid was located approximately 700 metres north of the Upper and Lower adits, 
covering a weak airborne EM response and a magnetic high anomaly. The ground VLF-EM 
geophysical survey did not detect any definitive responses. The magnetometer results were erratic, 
identifying small isolated magnetic highs. Soil sample results showed several isolated single sample 
gold anomalies and no copper or silver anomalies. An open ended and strong zinc anomaly (high to 
505 ppm) trends northward off the northern extent of the grid. 
 
Q3 Grid 
The Q3 grid was located on the far southeast end of Marshall Ridge, within the southeast corner of the 
present day Gold Summit property. The grid covered a weak NNE to SSW trending VLF anomaly. 
The magnetic response of the Q3 grid area is generally subdued. Soil sampling identified no precious 
metal anomalies, but did identify a weak zinc pattern, that correlated to the VLF anomaly. Quinto 
concluded that the co-incident VLF-zinc anomaly is related to a zinc rich phyllite lithology. The 
company also collected rock samples from the P.S. II and M.C.P. adits located on the north and south 
parts of the Q3 grid, respectively. The P.S. II adit was driven 30.5 metres on a vertical dipping 
northwest trending fracture, which cut a pyrite-rich rhyolite unit. All rock samples collected from this 
showing report sub-anomalous values except for a single grab sample collected from a 6.0 metre wide 
shear, that cross cut the adit in a easterly direction. This sample yielded 6.5 gpt silver and 4.8 gpt gold. 
The forty metre long M.C.P. adit was driven on a vertical fracture (trend?) cutting volcanics. Samples 
collected from this mineral occurrence yielded only trace values of gold, silver, copper, zinc and lead. 
 
Q4 Grid 
In 1981, the Q4 grid was located southwest of the peak of Marshall Ridge, approximately 400m south 
of the main area of historical workings. Later, in 1982, the grid was extended northeast, to cover the 
main workings of the Adit Zone. Soil samples were collected on the initial 1981 portion of the grid 
Q4, omitting the main Adit Zone area. Soil sample results for this area defined a generally NE-SW 
trending, strong and roughly co-incident zinc-copper soil sample anomaly. Zinc values ranged from 75 
to 900 ppm, while copper high values were on the order of 60 to 100 ppm. This zinc-copper anomaly 
is co-incident with a cluster of gold highs (high value of 280 ppb) and erratic silver values. A 200m x 
300m sized silver soil anomaly was discovered on the southwest limit of the Q4 grid (a local high 
value of 15 ppm). 
 
In August 1982, Quinto Mining completed an induced polarization geophysical survey over the Q4 
and parts of the Q2 grids. Results of this survey indicated areas of strong chargeability, some eight 
times background, extending laterally some 800 metres southwesterly from the adits (Q4 Grid). An 
apparent resistivity-low anomaly trends southwesterly from the adit workings for approximately one 
kilometre. This resistivity anomaly is attributed to a sheared graphitic argillite horizon. An 
approximately 250m x 500m "satellite" chargeability anomaly, which trends roughly east-west, was 
detected about 600-700 metres south of the adits (Q4 grid). This chargeability anomaly is nearly co-



Gold Summit Project, September 2011 

Havilah Mines Ltd. 

21 
M Moore  P. Geo 

incident with a number of apparent resistivity-low anomalies, which dominantly trend east to west. 
This area is reportedly underlain by silicified and jasperoidal lithologies (White 1982). A strong 
chargeability anomaly appears to extend northward towards on to grid Q2, but survey coverage is 
sparse. 
 
1987 to 1994 Gold Summit Mines Ltd. 

1) During the months of December 1987 and January 1988, Columbia Airborne Geophysical 
conducted a helicopter based airborne magnetometer and VLF-EM survey over Marshall Ridge, for 
Gold Summit Mines (Vancouver BC). Columbia flew 166.7 kilometres of line following the contours 
of Marshall Ridge, with an average line spacing of approximately 100 to 200 metres (Brewer 1988). 
The airborne survey identified: 

(1) The major northwest trending Marshall River fault structure. 
(2) A pair of northeast trending lineaments at the centre of the present day claims. 
(3) A group of four sub-parallel north trending lineations on the south slope of Marshall Ridge. 
(4) A single weak north-northwest trending VLF-EM conductive zone on the north slope of 

Marshall Ridge. 
(5) A bulls eye magnetic high over the peak of Marshall Ridge, interpreted to be representative of 

a buried intrusive plug of basic composition.  
 
2) In July 1987 and August 1988, Gold Summit Mines carried out a comprehensive exploration 
program including 30.5 kilometres of grid line establishment, collection of 988 geochemical soil 
samples, geological mapping and prospecting and re-sampling of known showings (adits and trenches) 
over the southwestern (South Grid) and northeastern (North Grid) slopes of Marshall Ridge (Sampson 
1988). The geology of the grids was mapped and soil samples were collected on 100 metre spaced 
lines at 25 metre intervals. The samples were analysed by ICP for silver, arsenic, copper, lead, 
antimony, zinc and atomic absorption for gold. Sampson reports the results of the soil sample survey 
of the two grids as follows. 
 
South Grid 
The South grid was located on the southwest slope of Marshall Ridge, covering the northeast extent of 
the Q4 Quinto grid and also the Adit Zone. A number of northeast trending soil anomalies were 
identified flanking the Upper and Lower adit area. A co-incident gold-arsenic-silver-lead-zinc  copper 
anomaly was delineated south of the main workings. This anomaly extends for approximately 700 
metres down the south-facing slope of Marshall Ridge. Gold values range from 20 ppb to 1,850 ppb. A 
series of shorter (300-400m long) sub-parallel gold-arsenic-silver-lead-zinc  copper anomalies are 
located north of the mains workings area. Two small (<300 m long) roughly northeast trending 
anomalies were identified on the southwest part of the grid (Lines 14N to 16N). These soil anomalies 
report subdued, but co-incident gold-arsenic-silver-lead-zinc  copper values.  
 
North Grid 
The North grid was located on the northeast slope of Marshall Ridge, between the Q2 and Q1 Quinto 
grids. Overall, the geochemical soil sample results were sub-anomalous. Only a single narrow (~25m 
wide) and weak arsenic-gold anomaly was delineated; extending for approximately 400 metres in an 
easterly direction through the west-centre part of the grid.  
 
Numerous rock samples were collected from the pre-existing adits and trenches. Three grab samples of 
sulphide rich quartz vein material, collected from the Lower adit, reported gold values of 0.239, 1.187 



Gold Summit Project, September 2011 

Havilah Mines Ltd. 

22 
M Moore  P. Geo 

and 0.316 opt. Grab samples collected from the Upper adit were collected from an irregular quartz 
vein with varying amounts of pyrite, arsenopyrite, galena and sphalerite. Gold values of the five 
samples collected ranged from 0.07 opt to 0.316 opt gold. The samples were analysed for gold 
exclusively. Sampson recommended a follow-up program of mechanized trenching and diamond 
drilling of the more significant soil anomalies. 
 
3) During the period from August to October 1989, Gold Summit Mines followed up the anomalous 
geochemical soil survey results of the previous year by carrying out a mechanical trenching program. 
The company excavated forty-four trenches (+1000 metres total) and collected 319 rock samples, 
which were only analysed by fire assay for gold. Principal trenching efforts focused on two areas 
within the South Grid: (1) "Area 1" the largest and more significant multi-element soil anomaly east of 
the Upper-Lower adit workings and (2) "Area 2" the smaller and somewhat subdued multi-element 
anomaly, on the southwest corner of the grid. Several overburden-masked veins were discovered in 
both areas. Chip sampling of veins, in Area 1, report values of up to 0.816 opt gold. These veins are 
interpreted to be an extension of the quartz vein/shear mineralization identified in the Upper adit. 
Trenches in Area 2 uncovered many short lensiodal veins, which are either faulted off or pinched out. 
Samples collected from the veins report gold values up to 0.75 opt. Trenching efforts in the region 
between Area 1 and Area 2 failed to achieve bedrock due to extensive overburden. The 1990 Miller-
Tait report mentions some trenching was carried out on the North grid, over the narrow and weak 
arsenic-gold soil anomaly. Trenching efforts uncovered a large feldspar porphyry dike, with pervasive 
disseminated pyrite, from which rock samples reported low gold values (high value of 1.0 ppm over 
1.4 metres). Miller-Tait collected additional rock samples from vein material in the Upper and Lower 
adits. Vein samples collected from the Upper adit proved more enriched in base and precious metals. 
The most significant assay result includes 0.32 opt gold, 1.2 opt silver, 0.35% lead and 3.4% zinc over 
1.7 metres. Miller-Tait recommended a follow-up program of additional soil sampling, mechanized 
trenching and diamond drilling, focusing on the regions to the northeast and southwest of the South 
Grid. 
 
4) In 1990, Gold Summit Mines carried out two exploration programs.  

 A limited reconnaissance style soil survey (36 soil samples) with associated prospecting & 
mapping on a single 900 metre long north-south trending line passing over the far eastern slope 
of Marshall Ridge bisecting Marshall Creek itself was complete by Tait (1990). The soil 
samples were collected at 25 metre intervals and reported weak gold and pathfinder element 
values. On the south end of this line Tait discovered two small adits. One of the adits contained 
a 50cm wide quartz vein (with 1-2% pyrite and arsenopyrite) hosted in greenstone volcanics. 
The vein is reported to have limited length, pinching out within the adit. Rock samples 
collected did not yield encouraging results. Additional prospecting and soil sampling was 
recommended.  

 
 A control grid ("Central Grid", also referred to as "Area F" by Tait et al 1994 ), measuring 

about 1.0 x 1.5 kilometres was established northeast of the 1998 Sampson North Grid on the 
east side of Marshall Ridge. Tait completed geological mapping and also collected 611 soil 
samples at 25 metres intervals at a line spacing of 100 metres. A total of 28 follow-up trenches 
focused on two areas. Trenches 90T-1 to 90T-8 tested two of three newly identified soil 
anomalies on the Central Grid, while trenches 90T-9 to 90T-28 focused on the eastward 
extensions of the Upper Adit zone and its possible structural offset to the north (i.e. on the 
northeast slope of Marshall Ridge). Tait (1990c) reports that the shear hosted quartz vein 



Gold Summit Project, September 2011 

Havilah Mines Ltd. 

23 
M Moore  P. Geo 

orientation is generally vertical with a bearing of 075 degrees and is variably pyrite, 
arsenopyrite, sphalerite and galena bearing. The trenching program established an estimated 
550 metres of exposed strike length of the shear-quartz vein system; a possible offset extension 
of the Adit Zone (?). Highlight trench samples reported by Tait are as follows.  

 
Trench Width Gold oz/ton 

90T-1 1.0m 0.308 

 1.0m 0.245 

 1.0m 0.282 

90T-2 grab 0.461 

 grab 0.779 

90T-6 2.0m 0.299 

90T-23 1.0m 0.455 

 
5) In July-August of 1994, Gold Summit Mines carried out program including four mini soil grids, ten 
trenches and six diamond drill holes (Tait et al 1994). A total of 178 soil samples were collected over 
four small and very detailed grids located on the eastern side of the 1990 "Central Grid or Area F", the 
40+00 line in Area A (South Grid) and two other small zones. Ten trenches (95TR-01 to 10) were 
created in Areas A and F and were mapped for geology, structure and mineralization. Chip and grab 
samples were collected from all mineralized and shear zones. Trench sample results were generally 
subdued with highlight gold results of 0.6 metres of 0.09 opt and a grab sample of 0.10 opt from 
trenches 94TR-03 and 94TR-07, respectively.   
 
Six diamond drill holes, totalling 984 metres targeted two areas. Holes S94-1 to 4 were drilled from 
the same setup and tested the immediate eastward subsurface extension of the Upper Adit Zone shear-
quartz vein zone, while holes S94-5 & 6 (also drilled from one drill pad) tested mineralization on the 
northeast side of Marshall Ridge extending from trenches 90T-01 and 90T-02. Hole S94-1 was 
abandoned at 129.5m, short of its intended target. Core samples were analyzed by multi-element ICP 
and fire assay for gold.  
 
1994 Highlight Gold Summit Mines Diamond Drilling Results 
 

DDH Hole From 
m 

To 
 m 

Width (metres) 
(true thickness) 

Gold 
opt 

Zinc 
% 

S94-1 - - Hole abandoned - - 
S94-2 148.28 148.89 0.61 0.153 5.27 
 148.89 149.35 0.46 0.290 1.81 
 149.35 149.66 0.30 0.133 - 
 149.66 149.96 0.30 0.043 - 
S94-3 147.83 148.59 0.76 2.573 0.80 
S94-4 147.83 148.13 0.30 0.070 - 
 148.13 148.74 0.61 0.099 - 
 148.74 149.35 0.61 0.053 - 
 149.35 149.66 0.30 0.230 2.36 
S94-5 61.11 61.57 0.46 0.565 2.50 
S94-6 79.25 80.77 1.52 0.065 - 

 
Weighted average:  S94-2: from 148.28 to 149.96 m  0.167 opt gold over 1.67 m 
   S94-4: from 147.83 to 149.66 m  0.100 opt gold over 1.82 m 



Gold Summit Project, September 2011 

Havilah Mines Ltd. 

24 
M Moore  P. Geo 

 
2008 Madman Mining Co. Ltd & Chai Cha Na Mining  

In 2008, Chai Cha Na Mining Inc optioned the three claims (550299, 550300 and 550301) of the 
property from the property owner Madman Mining Co. Ltd and carried out a verification soil survey. 
The soil grid was established over the area between the historic North and South Grids overlapping the 
west half of the 1990 Central grid (or Area F). A total of 500 soil samples were collected over an 
estimated area of 700m x 800m centered on 533686mE and 5636300mN. Line and station spacing was 
100m and 25m, respectively. Samples were taken from the B/C horizon and were taken from depths 
between 10 and 40 cm with an auger. All samples collected were put into kraft bags and submitted to 
Assayers Canada (Vancouver BC) for analysis. The -80 mesh sieved fraction of the soil samples was 
analyzed for gold by fire assay and multi-element ICP-AES.  
 
Thom (2008) reports that the survey identified 26 strong gold and 26 weak anomalies, irregularly 
distributed through the centre of the grid. The strong Au anomaly values ranged from 29 ppb to 392 
ppb. The 2008 soil anomalies appear to extend the gold anomalies identified by Sampson (1988) and 
Miller-Tait (1990c). Three linear anomalies striking from east-west to northeast-southwest have been 
suggested by Thom. Varying depths of the overburden and also down slope dispersion have likely 
affected the sampling results.  
 
Chi Cha Na relinquished its three claim option in 2010, but had earned a 15% retained interest. 
 
2010 Madman Mining Co. Ltd & Chai Cha Na Mining 

From September 28 to October 2, 2010, Chai Cha Na completed a small soil sampling and prospecting 
survey in two property areas as a follow up to the 2008 soil sampling surveys. A total of 284 soil 
samples and 3 rock samples were collected on six 100m spaced lines (25m sample interval) extending 
northwestward from the 2008 soil grid and also a small detailed grid about 500m north of the Adit 
Zone (five 25m spaced lines with a 10m sample interval). The company also completed a digital 
compilation of all historical soil and rock sampling data.  
 
Samples collected from the six 100m spaced lines yielded a few isolated single point gold highs with 
no obvious pathfinder element anomalies. Samples collected from the detailed mini grid appeared to 
define a narrow northeast trending gold anomaly.  
 
All samples were submitted to SGS (formerly Assayers Canada) of Vancouver for analysis. Rock 
samples were crushed, split, and ring pulverized (250g, > 95% -150 mesh). A sub-sample of 30 grams 
of the -150 mesh (<106 μm) sieved fraction of the rock sample was fire assayed with an atomic 
absorption finish for gold and 0.5 grams of the sample was digested with 5 mL 3:1 HCl/HNO3 at 
950C for 2 hours and diluted to 25 mL with a 50-element ICP-MS finish. Soil samples were dried and 
sieved to -80 mesh. A split of 15 grams of the -80 mesh (<180 μm) sieved fraction of the till sample 
was fire assayed with an atomic absorption finish for gold. The soils were not analyzed by an ICP 
element package. 
 
In late 2010, Chi Cha Na cancelled its option agreement with Madman Mining, who then sold all of its 
interest in the property to St. Elias Mines. Note that Chi Cha Na has a retained 15% interest in the 
property"s central three claims.  
 
 



Gold Summit Project, September 2011 

Havilah Mines Ltd. 

25 
M Moore  P. Geo 

7.0 GEOLOGIC SETTING & MINERALIZATION 
 
7.1 Regional Geology & Mineralization  
 
Regional Geology  
(Modified after Miller-Tait 1990 & Gaba et al 1989) (see Figure 7.1) 
 
The Gold Summit property is located in the Bridge River district, which includes variably 
metamorphosed and structurally imbricated chert, mafic extrusive and intrusive rocks, limestone, 
serpentinite and clastic rocks. This Permian (?) to Jurassic aged district is at the western margin of the 
Intermontaine Belt (volcanic and sedimentary rocks), where it abuts against the Coastal Plutonic 
Complex (plutonic and metamorphic rocks). In the region, Mississippian to Triassic arc volcanics and 
backarc sediments (Cadwallader Group and Bridge River Complex) are intruded by synvolcanic, 
intermediate plutons (Bralorne Intrusions) and faulted against Permian aged ophiolitic, ultramafic 
intrusions (Shulaps Ultramafic Complex). Jurassic and Cretaceous basin sediments and rift volcanics 
are sequentially intruded by late Cretaceous to early Tertiary plutons of felsic composition. Relatively 
flat-lying Eocene intermediate and mafic volcanics unconformably overlie the older lithological 
sequences. The Bridge River Complex lithologies are structurally interweaved with units of the 
Cadwallader Group and Shulaps Ultramafic complex. 
 
Regional structure is dominated by a system of northwest to north trending faults that reflect a 
complex history of mid-Cretaceous to Tertiary compressional, sinistral strike-slip and extensional 
deformation. The Marshall Creek fault structure, cutting the northeast portion of the Gold Summit 
claims, defines a steep dipping, dextral strike-slip fault, which is at least in part Tertiary in age. The 
Marshall Creek Fault is a prominent northwest trending structure that separates Bridge River schists to 
the northeast from lower grade Bridge River rocks to the southwest. The fault is regionally persistent, 
extending from the Fraser fault system (located about 35 kilometres south of Lillooet) to about 90 
kilometres north-westward through Marshall Lake and beyond. Poorly understood mid-Cretaceous to 
Tertiary structures, which dominate the region, are superimposed on older structures. Triassic 
subduction-related deformation and metamorphism is reflected in a penetrative blue schist-facies 
deformation of the Bridge River Group. 
 
Regional Mineralization  

Many of the area"s mineral occurrences occur between the Marshall Creek and Yalakom-Bridge River 
faults. Occurrences include mesothermal gold-quartz veins within stocks of the Blue Creek porphyry, 
as well as veins, disseminations and stockworks containing molybdenum, copper, and gold along the 
northeastern margin of the Mission Ridge pluton. Ultramafic rocks of the Shulaps complex contain 
occurrences of small chromite pods, nephrite jade, magnesite, lignite, and chrysolite. Cinnabar occurs 
locally as disseminations and veinlets near the Bridge River fault. The region also hosts a number of 
gold-bearing quartz veins within sediments and greenstones of the Bride River Complex. Veins are 
typically ribboned and occupy steeply dipping northerly and easterly trending shears. They commonly 
contain visible gold and up to a few percent sulphides; including arsenopyrite, pyrite, galena, 
sphalerite and chalcopyrite. 
 
The Gold Summit property is situated within the Bridge River Mining Camp. The claims are 25 km 
northeast of the Bralorne-Pioneer gold mines, where gold and silver mineralization is found in shear 
hosted quartz veins. Historical production of the mines is reported at about 4.15 million ounces of gold 



Gold Summit Project, September 2011 

Havilah Mines Ltd. 

26 
M Moore  P. Geo 

and 0.95 million ounces of silver from 7.9 million tons of ore, for a recovered grade of 0.53 opt 
(Howlett 2003). 
 
The British Columbia Minfile mineral occurrence database designates the Gold Summit with the 
number 092JNE035 and describes the property"s main showing (Adits Zone) as hosting shear related 
polymetallic quartz veins. The immediate surrounding area around the property includes nine other 
Minfile occurrences. Table 7.1 summarizes the general characteristics of these regional mineral 
occurrences and Figure 7.1 illustrates their locations. 
 
Table 7.1   Regional Minfile Occurrences 
Minfile # Name Commodities Mineralization Type 
092JNE034 Rex Mountain Gold, Silver, Copper, Bismuth, Tungsten Intrusion-related Au pyrrhotite veins 
092JNE035 Summit Gold, Silver, Zinc, Lead, Copper , Antimony Polymetallic veins Ag-Pb-Zn ± Au 
092JNE039 Primrose Gold, Silver, Copper Au-quartz veins 
092JNE064 4-Ton Jade/Nephrite Gemstones Jade 
092JNE065 Greenbay  Jade/Nephrite Gemstones Jade 
092JNE085 Marshall Creek Gold, Silver, Zinc, Lead, Copper , Antimony Polymetallic veins Ag-Pb-Zn ± Au 
092JNE088 Shulaps Gold, Silver, Copper Au-quartz veins 
092JNE091 Jones Coal Lignite 
092JNE099 Shulaps Range Chromium Podiform chromite 
092JNE123 Marshall Ridge Limestone Limestone 
 After BCDM Minfile Website 
 
A few of these BC Minfile occurrences and plus additional undocumented showings are included 
within Gray Rocks Resources" Silver Stream property and Miocene Metals" Shulaps property 
contiguous to the northwest and northeast, respectively.  
 
The Silver Stream property, located to the northwest of the Gold Summit, hosts gold in-soil anomalies 
which overlie the Marshall Creek Fault Zone. In 2005, Gray Rock drilled three holes, testing their 
West and SE soil anomalies associated with gold enriched quartz veins found in steeply dipping, east-
southeast trending shear zones (part of the Marshall Creek Fault Zone) hosted in intermediate to mafic 
volcanics and sediments near the contact with serpentinite or listwanite (Reid 2006). Reid (2006) 
reports that diamond drill hole SS05-01, returned anomalous results of 7.3 g/t gold over 2 meters and 
5.41 g/t gold over 9.14 meters from within two separate intervals of chert breccia. The other two holes 
yielded no anomalous gold values.  
 
Miocene Metals" Shulaps Property covers Middle Eocene Mission Ridge Plutonic Suite and younger 
quartz feldspar porphyry stocks of the Eocene Rexmount porphyry (excluding the Rex Mountain 
occurrence itself). These Tertiary intrusions are spatially associated with a number of copper, gold, 
silver, tungsten and molybdenum vein, skarn and porphyry type mineral occurrences.  



Gold Summit Property
British Columbia Canada

REGIONAL GEOLOGY

Figure 7.1August 2011

 

Gold Summit
Property

(Map from Gaba et al 1989; BCGSB Geological Fieldwork 1989, Paper 1990-1) 

039

035

123

088

099

065

064

085

034

091

035 BC Minfile Occurrences (immediate property area only)

Havilah Mining Ltd.

Minfile # Name Commodities Mineralization Type 
092JNE034 Rex Mountain Gold, Silver, Copper, Bismuth, Tungsten Intrusion-related Au pyrrhotite veins 
092JNE035 Summit Gold, Silver, Zinc, Lead, Copper , Antimony Polymetallic veins Ag-Pb-Zn ± Au 
092JNE039 Primrose Gold, Silver, Copper Au-quartz veins 
092JNE064 4-Ton Jade/Nephrite Gemstones Jade 
092JNE065 Greenbay  Jade/Nephrite Gemstones Jade 
092JNE085 Marshall Creek Gold, Silver, Zinc, Lead, Copper , Antimony Polymetallic veins Ag-Pb-Zn ± Au 
092JNE088 Shulaps Gold, Silver, Copper Au-quartz veins 
092JNE091 Jones Coal Lignite 
092JNE099 Shulaps Range Chromium Podiform chromite 
092JNE123 Marshall Ridge Limestone Limestone 

 



Gold Summit Project, September 2011 

Havilah Mines Ltd. 

28 
M Moore  P. Geo 

 
7.2 Local Geology & Mineralization 
(Modified after Miller-Tait 1990, Gaba et al 1989 & Sampson 1988) 
 
Local Geology 

The Gold Summit property is dominantly underlain by NW-SE striking Permian (?) to Jurassic aged 
Bridge River Complex rocks (northeast dipping). In the Marshall Ridge area, rocks of the Bridge River 
Complex are likely part of a southeast trending axial zone, belonging to a broad complex antiformal 
structure that plunges to the northwest. Locally, these rocks mainly include prehnite-pumpellyite 
metamorphic grade chert and greenstone volcanics (andesites and basalts), with interbedded argillite, 
limestone, tuff, volcaniclastics, pebble conglomerate, diabase and gabbro. The Bridge River Group has 
been intruded by Eocene light grey feldspar porphyry dacites and breccias, mapped on the southeast 
side of the claim block. These breccias commonly include fragments of conglomerate, sandstone, 
shale and lignite. The Eocene "Rexmont-type" porphyry intrusives outcrop at higher elevations on the 
property; mapped on the northeast part of the property.  
 
The most abundant rocks are dark coloured argillites, with lesser dark to light grey weathered cherts 
and dark cherty argillites. The chert commonly forms lenzoid and nodular layers up to 10 centimetres 
thick, separated by thin films of dark argillite. Consequently, the rock has been referred to as ribbon 
chert. Close spaced joints in the argillite and chert induce in a characteristic chunky rubble texture.  
 
Grey to chocolate brown coloured greenstone meta-volcanics give the impression of being more 
abundant than they actually are, because of their high resistance to weathering. Reportedly, most 
greenstone outcrops are andesite to basalt flows or flow-breccias, which are intensely shattered. 
Locally these volcanics are amygdaloidal and exhibit pillow structures.  
 
The Marshall Creek regional fault zone cuts from northwest to southeast through the northeast part of 
the property. The 1988 airborne geophysical survey has identified at least three sub-parallel northeast 
trending fault structures cutting through the centre of the claims. These structures appear to be splays 
off the major regional Marshall Creek structure. Other structures identified by the 1988 geophysical 
survey, include a group of four sub-parallel north trending lineations on the south slope of Marshall 
Ridge and a single weak north-northwest trending VLF-EM conductive zone on the north slope of 
Marshall Ridge. 
 
An eastward trending shear/fault structure hosts the property"s main quartz-sulphide vein 
mineralization, often defining a sheared contact between andesites and argillites. The orientation of 
this shear/vein structure is variable, with trends ranging from 060  to 110  and dips ranging from 30  
north to vertical. 
 
A north trending basic dike of unknown age has been identified in the Lower Adit zone. This 2.4 
metre wide dyke cuts across a series of argillites, quartzites and greenstones. Cutting across the dyke 
and argillites are a series of short parallel quartz-sulphide stringers.  
 
A large feldspar porphyry dike, likely related to the larger mapped Eocene feldspar porphyry, has been 
uncovered by historical trenching efforts in the north central part of the property; south of the Marshall 
Creek Fault Zone. The dyke contains weakly disseminated pyrite and weakly anomalous gold values. 



Gold Summit Property
British Columbia Canada

LOCAL GEOLOGY

Figure 7.2aAugust 2011

 

(Map from BC goverment website  http://webmap.em.gov.bc.ca/mapplace)

Havilah Mining Ltd.0 1.0 2.0 3.0

kilometres

NLegend

marine sediments & volcanics

greenstones

serpentinite

coarse clastic sediments

serpentinite melange

unnamed feldspar porp. intrusive

unnamed dacite volcanics

fault, thrust fault

historical occurence

Mississippian to mid Jurassic
Bridge River Complex

upper Triassic
Cadwallader Group (Hurley Fm)

Permian
Shulaps Ultramafic Complex

Eocene

MmJBsv

MmJBgs

MmJBus

uTrCHsc

Pshus

Efp

Eud

Carpenter
Lake

Marshall Creek Fault Zone

Efp

MmJBus

Efp

MmJBgs

MmJBgs

Pshus

Pshus Pshus

Eud

MmJBsv

MmJBsv

MmJBsvMmJBsv

uTrCHsc

MmJBgs



Gold Summit Project, September 2011 

Havilah Mines Ltd. 

30 
M Moore  P. Geo 

 
Local Mineralization     
The Gold Summit Property hosts a number of roughly east trending, steep north dipping, shear hosted 
mesothermal gold-silver  polymetallic quartz vein occurrences. Historical exploration efforts have 
identified a lengthy quartz vein/shear (Adit Zone) and several other less extensive shear hosted quartz 
veins. The detailed dimensions of most veins discovered to date are not fully known. In many cases, 
the veins are masked by overburden and/or are structurally offset. A modestly gold enriched feldspar 
porphyry dyke has also been revealed by trenching efforts.  
 
For the purposes of brevity, the author will not detail each of the individual shear hosted quartz vein 
occurrences of the Gold Summit property. In depth descriptions of most of the property showings can 
be found in the following references: Miller-Tait 1990, Sampson 1988 and Landsberg 1981. The 
following is a brief account of the foremost Gold Summit mineral occurrences identified to date. 
 
Adit Zone 
The Adit Zone is located near centre of the Gold Summit property, on the south slope of Marshall 
Ridge. This area has been the subject of much of the historical exploration, including tunnelling 
(Upper and Lower adits), soil sampling, geological mapping, various ground geophysical programs 
and mechanized trenching. 2011 Havilah explorations cover this area also. Mineralization in this area 
is found in an eastward trending gold bearing quartz vein-shear, which has been structurally displaced 
northward, at least once. Mineralology of the veins consists of quartz, pyrite, arsenopyrite, galena and 
sphalerite, in locally varying concentrations, where sulphide minerals are normally less than a few 
percent, overall. The orientation of the Adit Zone is variable, with trends ranging from 060  to 110  
and dips ranging from 30 N to vertical. Reported widths of the Adit Zone vein range from 0.25m to 
about 2.0 metres. 
 
Rock chip samples collected from the vein-shear occurrence (060 /50 N) at the Upper Adit portal 
report a high value of 0.216 opt gold over one metre. At the end of the Upper Adit workings, the vein 
is reported to be displaced approximately 5 to 10 metres north and has an orientation of 090 /55 N. A 
sample collected from this vein exposure yielded 0.32 opt gold, 1.2 opt silver, 0.35% lead and 3.4% 
zinc, over 1.7 metres.  
 
At the Lower Adit (located about 50m west of the Upper Adit), a 2.4 metre wide basic dyke cuts 
northward through quartzites, argillites and greenstone volcanics. A series of short parallel stringer 
sulphide (quartz, arsenopyrite and pyrite) veinlets were observed in both the basic dyke and the 
argillite country rock. Sampson (1998) collected three grab samples from this sulphide occurrence. 
The samples assayed 0.239, 1.187 and 0.316 opt gold. 
 
The Adit Zone quartz vein-shear system has been traced from east to west over an interpreted length of 
about 400 to 450 metres. Quartz vein-shears uncovered in Area 1 ("A1") trenches, approximately 400 
metres northeast of the adits, are likely extensions of the Adit Zone vein system (Miller-Tait 1990). 
Rock samples collected from Area 1 limonitic-quartz veins and iron oxide enriched shears report gold 
values ranging from a few ppb to 0.816 opt. The Adit Zone vein system has been traced on surface to 
an outcrop approximately 40 metres west of the Lower adit. Sampson (1988) reports that this 1.8 
metre wide vein-shear exposure contains stringers and disseminations of sulphides and has an 
orientation of 110 /30 N. Two continuous chip samples collected from this outcrop yielded 0.287 opt 
gold over 1.2 metres and 0.356 opt gold over 0.3 metres. The Adit Zone remains open along strike. 



Gold Summit Project, September 2011 

Havilah Mines Ltd. 

31 
M Moore  P. Geo 

 
In 1994, a total of six diamond drill holes tested the Adit Zone structure. Four holes (S94-1 to 4) 
drilled from the same setup, tested the immediate eastward subsurface extension of the Upper Adit 
Zone shear-quartz vein zone, Hole S94-1 was abandoned short of its intended target. Holes 2 to 4 
intercepted the structure and yielded highly anomalous gold values. Select highlight values include: 
S94-2 (1.67m of 0.167 opt Au), S94-3 (0.76m of 2.573 opt Au) and S94-4 (1.80m of 0.100 opt Au). 
Drill holes S94-5 & 6 (also drilled from one drill pad) are located about 750 metres northeast of holes 
1-4 on the east side of Marshall Ridge. These two holes tested mineralization extending from trenches 
90T-01 and 90T-02, part of a larger trenching area which focussed on what maybe the eastward and 
north offset extension of the Adit Zone structure. Highlight values from these two drill holes include: 
S94-5 (0.46m of 0.565 opt Au) and S94-6 (1.52m of 0.065 opt Au). 
 
Other Shear/Quartz Vein Occurrences 
1) The 1990 trenching program included the creation of 24 trenches in Area 2 ("A2"); located 
approximately 500 to 750 metres southwest of the Adit Zone. This area is roughly co-incident with the 
"south satellite" chargeability IP geophysical anomaly defined by Quinto in 1982; which is reportedly 
attributed to graphite enriched sediments. The trenches exposed a number of short lensiodal veins, 
which are reported to be either faulted off or pinched out. Samples collected from the veins report gold 
values up to 0.75 opt. Orientations of the Area 2 veins-shears are variable, with trends ranging from 
040  to 140  (averaging about 100 ) and dips ranging from 45  N to vertical (averaging about 60  N). 
Observed vein-shear mineralization includes quartz, brecciated quartz, limonite and rare pyrite-
arsenopyrite. Trenching efforts between Area 1 and Area 2 failed to achieve bedrock due to extensive 
overburden depth. 
 
2) 1990 trenching of the arsenic-gold soil anomaly on the "North Grid" uncovered a large feldspar 
porphyry dyke, with pervasive disseminated pyrite. The dike is located south of the Marshall Creek 
Fault Zone and maybe related to the larger Eocene feldspar porphyry mapped on the northeast part of 
the property. Porphyry rock samples collected from Trench 55 reported anomalous gold assays; high 
value of 1.0 ppm over 1.4 metre, with the next highest being 880 ppb over 1.0 metre. 
 
3) In 1988, Sampson sampled a Quinto Mining trench, located approximately 200 metres northwest of 
the Adit Zone. Two grab samples collected from a mineralized shear yielded 0.11 opt and 0.40 opt 
gold. 
 

Gold Summit Soil Surveys 
Both the Quinto (1981) and Gold Summit (1988 & 1990) soil surveys have illustrated that base, 
precious and pathfinder elements such as copper, zinc, lead, silver, gold, arsenic and antimony can 
form clear and co-incident anomalies in close proximity to mineralized vein-shear occurrences. In 
many cases, soil anomalies are defined by a single sample site (particularly for gold) and in other 
cases, like the large zinc-copper anomaly south of the Adit Zone, are defined by numerous stations 
over hundreds of metres. All typical indicator elements generally report weak to subtle values. Reports 
do specify that down-slope dispersion of soil anomalies can occur in areas of particularly precipitous 
terrain (White 1981). Gold Summit carried out a basic statistical analysis of their 1988 soil sample 
survey where the anomalous soil analyses levels for specific elements are as follows: silver > 2.5 ppm, 
arsenic > 107 ppm, copper > 130 ppm, lead > 43 ppm, antimony > 9.7 ppm, zinc > 372 ppm and gold 
>40 ppb (Sampson 1988). Statistical analyses by Thom (2010) has indicated that property gold 
"background" level is estimated at 15 ppb and a strong soil anomaly measures greater than 25ppb.   



7.2b

Gold in soil zones (strong east-west contour bias)

Broad Gold in Soil Outline



Gold Summit Project, September 2011 

Havilah Mines Ltd. 

33 
M Moore  P. Geo 

 
Recent soil sampling completed by Chi Cha Na, St Elias and Havilah continues to show that soil 
anomalies form both isolated point source and narrow trending anomalies, which are challenging to 
interpret over distances exceeding a few hundred metres.  
 
Figure 7.2b, a compilation of all property gold in soil values, shows that the centre of the property 
hosts a broad and open-ended northeast-southwest trending gold anomaly measuring up to 750 metres 
wide by more than 2,000 metres long. Within this large gold anomaly, the author, using a strong east 
to west contouring bias, has loosely outlined of at least six linear zones which stand out as particularly 
anomalous in gold.  
 
The property"s broad gold soil anomaly is roughly coincident with the property"s priority geophysical 
anomalies, especially the IP chargeability (1982 and 2011), elevated magnetics and weak horizontal 
loop conductors.  
 
Gold Summit Geophysical Surveys 
Historical regional scale geophysical surveys appear to have effectively defined the major regional and 
property wide structures (i.e. 1988 airborne survey). In general, ground geophysical surveys have not 
been particularly effective for defining the gold-sulphide enriched zones within the narrow quartz vein 
shears. The early magnetometer and VLF-EM surveys were largely ineffective, having delineated 
what are interpreted to be the major regional-scale features.  
 
The 1982 induced polarization survey completed over the "Q4" and parts of the "Q2" grids is reported 
to have outlined definitive chargeability and resistivity anomalies extending some 800 metres 
southwesterly from the Upper Adit (see Figure 6.0 and Section 6.0 History for more details). Grid Q4 
overlaps with the southeast part of Havilah"s 2011 control grid. A second, 250m x 500m "satellite" 
chargeability anomaly, which trends roughly east-west, was detected about 600-700 metres south of 
the two adits. This chargeability anomaly is nearly co-incident with a number of apparent resistivity-
low anomalies, which dominantly trend east to west. This area is reportedly underlain by silicified and 
jasperoidal lithologies (White 1982). However, some the 1982 IP anomalies are reportedly attributed 
to either topographic effects or graphite rich sedimentary lithologies.  
 
In July-August 2011, Havilah completed three modern geophysical surveys including magnetics, 
horizontal loop EM (Max-Min) and 3D inversion induced polarization over the west centre part of the 
property; covering much of the 1988 Sampson North Grid, plus ground to the west (see Figure 6.0). 
This grid covers the Adit Zone area and a portion of the central part of the property"s main gold in soil 
anomaly. In combination, the surveys have defined a large, open ended, northeast to east trending 
geophysically anomalous zone which is loosely coincident with the property"s main gold in soil 
anomaly. The composite geophysical zone is best defined by IP chargeability, together with secondary 
features including elevated magnetics and a weak horizontal loop EM conductor. The anomalous zone 
measures at least 400m long by up to 800m wide. The IP chargeability anomaly strongly trends off the 
northeast limit of the survey area and is apparently narrowing to the southwest. The 3D model cross 
sections suggest that the chargeability signature may have a northwest rake or plunge (see Section 9.2 
for more details). The geophysical surveys did not definitively identify or assist in the extension of the 
property"s historical gold mineralization hosted in east-west trending narrow shear structures. 



Gold Summit Project, September 2011 

Havilah Mines Ltd. 

34 
M Moore  P. Geo 

8.0 DEPOSIT TYPES 
Current data indicates that mineralization identified on the early stage Gold Summit project is best 
characterized as a shear hosted quartz vein gold-silver target. The following is a general description 
of this deposit type. References for deposit characteristics are from the following websites: British 
Columbia government mineral deposit profiles, Northern Miner "Geology 101" and GSC Mineral 
Deposits in Canada (Section 27 References). 
 
The goals and methodologies of the recommended Phase 1 and 2 exploration programs in this report 
are tailored for the identification of mineralization characteristic of a shear hosted lode gold deposit 
setting. The combined use of airborne geophysical surveying, soil sampling, prospecting, trench 
sampling, geological mapping and ground geophysical surveys have been variably effective in 
delineating mineralized zones for drill testing at Gold Summit.  
 

Shear Hosted Gold-Silver (  polymetallic) Quartz Vein deposits 

Gold Summit property mineralization is similar to most shear related lode gold deposits. 
Mineralization is epigenetic in nature and formed from structurally focussed hydrothermal fluids, 
which create a system of low sulphide quartz veins, veinlets or stockworks. These deposits are 
normally associated with major regional scale structural "breaks" or faults. Deposits are often located 
in or near a plutonic body. Vein systems often occur in the central parts of discrete shear zones within 
a larger regional fault, where rotational or simple shear strains predominate. Vein systems are tabular, 
sub vertical structures of varying thickness and lateral extent; where typical thickness is measured in 
metres and the strike-dip dimensions are measured in tens or hundreds of metres. The economically 
viable part of the vein system may be considerably smaller than the whole shear system; often forming 
discreet shoots of mineralization. Precious metal mineralization often occurs as coarse individual 
grains, occasionally making this type of deposit difficult to evaluate, due to a nugget effect on sample 
analyses. 
  
Quartz veins usually have sharp contacts with wall rocks and exhibit a variety of textures, including 
massive, ribboned or banded and stockworks with anastamosing gashes and dilations. Textures may be 
modified or destroyed by subsequent deformation. Wallrock alteration is characterized by 
silicification, pyritization and potassium metasomatism generally occurring adjacent to veins (usually 
within a metre) within a broader zone of carbonate alteration, extending up to tens of metres from the 
veins. Quartz-carbonate altered rock (listwanite) and pyrite are often the most prominent alteration 
minerals in the wallrock. Fuchsite, sericite, tourmaline and scheelite are common where veins are 
associated with felsic to intermediate intrusions.  
 
Ore mineralogy can include: gold, silver, arsenopyrite chalcopyrite, pyrite, sphalerite, tetrahedrite, 
argentite, pyrrhotite, galena, tellurides, scheelite, and bismuth. Gangue mineralogy includes: quartz 
and carbonate (calcite, dolomite, ankerite or siderite), hematite-limonite, mariposite (fuchsite), sericite, 
muscovite, chlorite, tourmaline, graphite. 
 
Typical geophysical signature: Associated structures may be defined by ground magnetic, very low 
frequency or electromagnetic surveys. Airborne surveys may identify prospective regional-scale major 
structures. 
 
Other similar British Columbia lode gold deposits include Bralorne-Pioneer and Premier mining 
camps. Other well-known examples of lode gold mining camps are Red Lake (Ontario) and Kirkland 
Lake (Ontario). 



Gold Summit Project, September 2011 

Havilah Mines Ltd. 

35 
M Moore  P. Geo 

9.0 EXPLORATION 
 
Havilah 2011 Exploration 
 
The reader is referred to Section 6.0 for a detailed summary of property historical exploration. 
 
During the months of July to August 2011, Havilah completed a detailed exploration program on the 
central part of the claim block. Work included a cut line control grid, soil/rock sampling and a three 
part ground geophysical survey of magnetics, horizontal loop EM and 3D inversion induced 
polarization. The exploration program was completed at a total cost of $136,418.  
 
TABLE 9.0 Havilah 2011 Exploration Expenditures 
 

Exploration Details Total 
Personnel (geologists, prospectors cook etc.) $43,615  
Camp, consumables, rentals 12,220 
Transportation & related rentals 6,860 
SJ Geophysics Inc. 
Ground Geophysical Magnetics, Max-Min & IP Surveys 

60,446 

SGS Soil – Rock Sample Analytical 6,577 
Satellite imagery, maps, publications 6,700 

TOTAL $136,418  
 
9.1 Grid Establishment and Soil/Rock Sampling 
In early July 2011, Havilah created a control cut-line grid over the west centre part of the property, 
covering much of the 1988 Sampson North Grid, plus ground to the west (see Figure 6.0). The grid 
includes ten-two kilometre long lines spaced at 100m intervals, which are oriented at 135-315 degrees. 
A total of 188 soil samples were collected on along a dirt road just south the grid area, which follows 
the contours of the south slope of Marshall Ridge. Twelve rock samples were collected at various 
locations throughout the grid and soil sampling areas from outcrops or float material. The soils and 
rocks were analyzed by fire assay for gold and 52 elements via ICP.  
 
Figure 7.2b, a compilation map of all property gold in soil values, shows that the centre of the property 
hosts a broad and open-ended northeast –southwest trending gold anomaly measuring up to 750 metres 
wide by more than 2,000 metres long. Results of the 2011 road-based soil survey form part of this 
extensive gold anomaly, as sampling has extended the southwestern trend by at least 250 metres.  
 
9.2 SJ Geophysics Ltd.    Ground Geophysical Surveys 
In mid-July 2011, SJ Geophysics Ltd of Delta BC completed three geophysical surveys including 
magnetics, horizontal loop EM (Max-Min) and 3D induced polarization. Both magnetics and 
horizontal loop was carried out on the entire grid and the 3D induced polarization test survey covered 
five lines in northern half of the survey area. The 3D inversion calculations have modelled the both 
resistivity and chargeability signatures to an estimated depth of 300metres. The graphical results for 
the surveys are in Appendix A.  
 
The 2011survey area is dominantly underlain by northwest-southeast trending, northeast dipping 
Bridge River Complex mixed marine sediments and volcanics. Locally, these rocks mainly include 
prehnite-pumpellyite metamorphic grade greenstone pillow basalts and interbedded brown argillite 
and "ribbon-chert". Historical drill logs indicate that the highly fractured volcanic units contain 



Gold Summit Project, September 2011 

Havilah Mines Ltd. 

36 
M Moore  P. Geo 

intervals of weakly disseminated pyrite (± arsenopyrite) and the sediments often contain graphite 
enriched layers and cross-cutting shears.  
 
Magnetics Survey 

In the centre of the magnetics survey are two loosely defined east-west trends of elevated magnetic 
intensity, which trend off the eastern extent of the survey area. The southern mag-high anomaly "Zone 
A" is a collection of small discrete magnetic highs and lows, while the mag-high anomaly located 
about 800 metres to the north is more linear. Zone A is bisected by a weak east-west trending 
horizontal loop EM conductor and roughly co-incident with a prominent IP chargeability high 
anomaly. These two mag-high zones are separated by a moderately strong east-west trending linear 
low zone which runs off the west and east limits of the survey area. The Adit Zone area is underlain by 
a non-descript a gradual change from moderate low to high zone; south of magnetic high "Zone A". 
 
A strong northeast trending high anomaly is observed on the east limit of the grid and a strong lobate 
high on the west limit of the grid. Both of these anomalies trend outside the survey area are postulated 
to be reflective of small shallow intrusive units.  
 
Horizontal Loop EM (Max-Min) survey 

The author suspects that the results this horizontal loop EM geophysical survey have been adversely 
affected by both topographic and varying transmitter-receiver cable separation distances and therefore 
there is some uncertainty as to the overall quality of the survey"s data (see Section 11.1 also). Careful 
study and ground truthing of these anomalies is required. Nonetheless, the survey has identified a 
weak east-west trending conductor which trends outside the limits of the survey area. This anomaly is 
best defined by higher frequencies of the out-of-phase (quadrature) component of the geophysical 
survey as the in-phase component is particularly noisy and difficult to interpret. This weak conductor 
(located about 300m north of the Adit Zone) measures at least 1,250m long and shows an estimated 
75m northward offset on the western side. The EM conductor bisects magnetic Zone A, is underlain 
by a narrow and very weak east-west trending magnetic low zone and is paralleled on the north and 
south sides by moderately resistive linear features; especially defined by the out-of-phase components. 
Interestingly, this weak EM conductor is loosely co-incident with the general eastward trend of the 
main body of the 3D IP chargeability anomaly; particular where it is modelled to depths greater than 
75 metres.   
 
Two shorter and less defined northeast trending EM conductors are found in the southeast portion of 
the survey area, flanking the estimated surface trace of the Adit Shear Zone. The Adit Zone and DDH 
1-4 area are located on the north side of a small and weak resistive anomaly which trends northeast off 
the grid area towards the trench area of DDH S94-5 & 6.  
 
3D Inversion Induced Polarization Survey (3DIP) 
The resistivity component of the 3D induced polarization survey shows the survey area is blanketed by 
discrete east-west trending alternating highs and lows, which are modelled from surface to depths of 
about 100 metres. These near "rhythmic" anomalies are likely mapping variations in the northwest 
trending pillow basalts and the intercalations of more resistive argillite-ribbon chert lithologies. The 
resistivity signature in the immediate area of the Adit Zone and DDH S94-1 to 4 is marked by a 
moderately strong semi-circular feature which is modelled to depths of more than 150m. There is no 
apparent relationship between the weak east-west trending horizontal loop EM conductor and the 
resistivity model.  



Gold Summit Project, September 2011 

Havilah Mines Ltd. 

37 
M Moore  P. Geo 

 
The 3DIP survey has identified a strong chargeability anomaly which trends off the central northeast 
portion of the survey area. This anomaly is loosely co-incident with portions of the 1992 IP survey 
chargeability anomaly, magnetic Zone A and also the property"s large gold in soil anomaly. 3D 
modelling of this anomaly shows it to have a northeast to east-northeast trend and of increasing 
strength, particularly past 100m depth. The anomaly measures more than 400m long being open to the 
northeast and apparently narrowing to the southwest. The width of the anomaly near surface is narrow 
at less than 100 metres but is modelled at depth (>300m) to increase to about 275 metres. A second 
and less defined chargeability anomaly is located about 350 metres northwest of the main 
chargeability anomaly. The anomaly also has a northeastward orientation and trends off the north of 
the grid area.  
 
The 3D model cross sections indicate that these two chargeability anomalies may merge at depth along 
its northeastward trend, forming a broad and moderate in-scope chargeability anomaly, measuring up 
to an estimated 800 metres wide. The stronger main portion of the anomaly is smaller at about 200-
300 metres width. The cross sections also suggest that the chargeability signature may have a 
northwest rake or plunge.   
 
 
10.0 DRILLING 

No property drilling has been carried out by either Havilah or St. Elias.  

Section 6.0 includes a brief summary of the historical property diamond drilling. Records are 
incomplete indicating that perhaps as many as 9 shallow diamond drill holes tested surface gold 
anomalies: three holes (?) by Quinto Mining (1982-3) and six holes by Gold Summit Mines (1994).  
 



Gold Summit Project, September 2011 

Havilah Mines Ltd. 

38 
M Moore  P. Geo 

11.0 SAMPLE PREPARATION, ANALYSES AND SECURITY 
 
11.1 2011 Havilah and Historical Exploration 
The author considers all analytical and related data resulting from work prior to 2008 to be historical 
in nature and as such, makes no representation as to whether the pre-2008 historical information is 
complete or wholly accurate. Nonetheless, these data are considered reliable and sufficiently 
comprehensive. Where QC/QA information is lacking in the historical records, the author assumes that 
standard mineral exploration industry care and control typical of each historical exploration era was 
observed. It appears that the analytical and sampling procedures and protocols reported within the 
public reports conform to the best practices of their respective eras and that these results are 
representative of the mineralization on the Gold Summit Property. There is no reason to believe that 
either sampling integrity or security was jeopardized at any time during the sampling programs 
reported in the project"s historical assessment reports.  
 
The 2008 to 2010 explorations were carried out by Madman Mining and St. Elias Mines. These 
companies and their technical staff are well known and respected by the report author. The author 
believes that exploration work completed by St. Elias is of a high industry standard and can be relied 
upon. No aspect of sample preparation, from the 2008-10 periods was conducted by an officer or 
director of Madman Mining, St. Elias or Chai Cha Na.  
 
The sampling procedures, sample-handling protocols, assaying methods and quality control (QA/QC) 
measures for the 2011 exploration program at Gold Summit are as follows.  
 
Grid Emplacement  

A total of 10 - two kilometre long lines where placed at 100m intervals; oriented at 135-315 degrees, 
covering an estimated 18 square kilometres (9.0 x 2.0 km). Twenty five metres stations were located 
and flagged on each line by the use of a hand held Garmin GPS (model Garmin Map60CS; accuracy 
±6m). The lines were cleared of debris and restrictive vegetation to facilitate easy access for the 
geophysical surveys via chain saw and axe.  
 
Soil & Rock Sampling 

A total of 188 soil samples were collected at roughly 25 metre-spaced intervals from the up slope bank 
of an old road which is located to the southwest of the grid area, following the contour of Marshall 
Ridge. Twelve rock samples were collected at various locations throughout the grid and soil sampling 
areas from outcrops or float material. All rock samples were secured in plastic sample bags, sealed and 
labelled with a unique sample number. The location of each sample was noted, in UTM coordinates 
(NAD83 datum), with the aid of a hand-held GPS (Garmin Map60CS; accuracy ±6m). Soil Samples 
were collected by digging through a layer of volcanic ash and collecting a ~100 gram sample of well 
developed red-brown B-horizon soil. Samples were placed in standard paper Kraft bags and sent to 
SGS Mineral Services in Vancouver BC.  
 
All rock and soil samples were analysed by fire assay for gold and 52 elements by ICP. Each soil 
sample was dried and sieved to provide a -80-mesh fraction, from which a 1.0 gram sub-sample was 
collected. Preparation for all rock samples was to crush <3 kg to 75% passing 10 mesh, split 250g and 
pulverize to 85% passing 200 mesh (PRP89). All samples were leached with a 3:1 HCl : HNO3 aqua 
regia digest mixture. The cooled leachate then under went 52-element ICP-AES and ICP-MS analyses 
(ICM14B). All samples were also analysed by fire assay methods, using a second 30-gram split of the 



Gold Summit Project, September 2011 

Havilah Mines Ltd. 

39 
M Moore  P. Geo 

200 mesh material (Au FAA 313). All sample pulps and rejects have been discarded. The analytical 
data is tabulated in electronic files in a metric database (Microsoft Excel spread sheet).   
 
Future sampling and analysis protocols to be utilized by Havilah must be within modern acceptable 
industry standards and should conform to all industry-standard quality control and acceptance 
procedures.  For example, a qualified geologist must supervise all sampling; care of bagged samples 
and the security of those samples must be a priority; and sample assay procedures must be suitable and 
of high quality. Key items involving QA/QC from the field included: maintaining a clean environment 
at the drill, trench sites, geotechnical logging, geological logging and core cutting facility; preparing 
blank samples in a separate location from the core processing facility; implementing a blank and 
standard insertion schedule; preparation of certified matrix compatible standards; and using of a chain 
of custody document to accompany the samples from the field to the laboratory. 
 
Ground Geophysical Survey methodologies 

In mid-July 2011, SJ Geophysics Ltd. of Delta BC completed a three part geophysical survey 
including magnetics, horizontal loop EM (Max-Min) and 3D inversion induced polarization surveys. 
Both magnetics and horizontal loop was carried out on the entire grid, however the 3D induced 
polarization test survey covered 10 km (5 lines) in northern half of the survey area. The graphical 
results for the surveys are in Appendix A.  
 
The resulting processed geophysical data have been presented in a variety of coloured map formats at 
variety of scales, delivered both in hard copy and as electronic PDF files. In addition, the processed 
data have been provided as an ASCII format that can be imported quickly into Geosoft-compatible 
database. 
 
Magnetics Survey 
(a) Instrumentation: the magnetic survey was carried out with three GSM-19 units manufactured by 
GEM Systems Inc. of Richmond Hill, Ontario. Two of the units were used for taking the survey 
readings and each consisted of an Overhauser magnetometer with a VLF-EM receiver option. In 
addition a third GSM- 19 unit without the VLF-EM option was used for a base station. The field units 
were used with a GSM-19 base station magnetometer for the purpose of monitoring the diurnal 
variation of the magnetic field. The magnetometer part reads directly in nanoTeslas (nT) the Earth"s 
total magnetic field to an accuracy of ±0.2 nT (with an instrument sensitivity of 0.05 nT and an 
absolute accuracy of 0.2 nT), over a range of 20,000 - 120,000 nT.  
 
(b) Magnetic Survey Procedure:  Readings of the earth"s total magnetic field were taken every 12.5 
meters along the survey lines with a separation of 100 meters. The diurnal variation was monitored in 
the field by a base station. The magnetic survey was carried out with three GSM-19 units. 
 
(c) Magnetic Data Reduction: The data was uploaded to a computer and integrated with location 
information.  After diurnal variations were removed and any levelling required between instruments 
was completed, stack profiles and false-colour gridded map of the Total Magnetic Intensity were 
produced.  
 
Horizontal Loop EM (Max-Min) survey 
Max-Min is a frequency domain EM system where the primary field is established by sending an 
alternating current through a coil of wire.  The receiver measures both the inphase and quadrature (out-
of-phase) components of the resultant field. A cable connecting the transmitter and receiver provides 



Gold Summit Project, September 2011 

Havilah Mines Ltd. 

40 
M Moore  P. Geo 

the phase and amplitude of the primary field The primary field for a specific cable length is then used 
as a normalization and reduction factor for the measured field to thus yield a amplitude of the 
secondary field, expressed as a percentage of the primary field. The in-phase component of the 
primary field is thus very sensitive to coil separation and slope. In the horizontal loop mode, the 
transmitter and receiver coils are kept horizontal (in the plane of the slope) at a fixed distance (again in 
the slope) apart. Corrections can be made after collecting the data if proper distances and slopes are 
collected. If there is no response on the lowest in-phase frequency a correction can be made by 
subtracted the results of the lowest frequency form the higher in-phase frequencies. Characteristics of 
the MaxMin profiles are determined by two main factors: the geometry and attitude of the conductive 
source and the geometry of the receiver and transmitter coils. In the horizontal coplanar configuration, 
a conductive response to a vertically oriented plate-like body typically appears as a negative peak, 
flanked by two lower amplitude positive shoulders ~ 1.3 x the coil separation apart. 
 

A) Instrumentation: the horizontal loop electromagnetic survey was carried out with a MaxMin I-
10 manufactured by Apex Parametrics Limited of Ontario.  A cable connecting the transmitter 
and receiver provides a reference signal used to calculate the induced secondary field. 

B)  Survey Procedure:  Readings were taken every 25 meters along the survey lines with a 
separation of 100 meters. A transmitter-receiver cable separation of 100 metres was maintained 
through the survey.  

C)  Data Reduction: The MaxMin data was dumped to a commercial program called MaxMin 
Utilities, where topographic corrections are applied to the data. The corrected data was 
exported to a spreadsheet, where suspect or poor quality points are flagged and removed. The 
lowest in-phase frequency can be then subtracted from the higher in-phase frequencies as a 
method of correcting for topographic error as long as there is no conductive response at the 
lowest in-phase frequency it.  The in-phase and quadrature components are mapped as stacked 
profiles in plan view for each frequency.  

Review of the 2011 Gold Summit Max-Min EM survey data shows it to be "noisy", particularly the in-
phase component. The diminished quality of the data is most likely a result of highly variable 
transmitter-receiver cable separation distances induced by both the challenging topography and also a 
low accuracy placement of individual station pickets. Future Max-Min surveys should strive to 
mitigate the cable separation errors by either establishing a secant corrected grid or tight chaining grid 
stations with in-survey inclinometer measurement corrections at each station. Also very important is 
insuring that field operators adjust the angle of the loops so that they are parallel for all readings. 
Future surveys should focus on higher frequency channels (1760, 3540 & 7040hz) rather than the 
lower frequencies (440 & 880hz), as the higher frequencies are better suited for identification of 
narrow and sulphide poor conductors.   

 
Induced Polarization Survey (IP) & 3D Inversion IP (3DIP) 
The time domain IP technique energizes the ground with an alternating square wave pulse via a pair of 
current electrodes. During current injection, the apparent (bulk) resistivity of the ground is calculated 
from the measured primary voltage and the input current. Following current injection, a time decaying 
voltage is also measured at the receiver electrodes. This IP effect measures the amount of polarizable 
(or "chargeable") materials in the subsurface rock. Under ideal circumstances, high chargeability 
corresponds to disseminated metallic sulphides. Unfortunately, IP responses are rarely uniquely 



Gold Summit Project, September 2011 

Havilah Mines Ltd. 

41 
M Moore  P. Geo 

interpretable as other rock materials are also chargeable, including some graphitic rocks, clays and 
some metamorphic rocks (e.g., serpentinite). Therefore, it is prudent from a geological perspective to 
incorporate other data sets to assist in interpretation. IP and resistivity measurements are generally 
considered repeatable to within about five percent. However, changing field conditions, such as 
variable water content or electrode contact, reduce the overall repeatability. These measurements are 
influenced to a large degree by the rock materials near the surface or, more precisely, near the 
measuring electrodes. In the past, interpretation of a traditional IP pseudosection was often uncertain 
because strong responses located near the surface could mask a weaker one at depth. 
 
Three dimensional Inversion IP surveys ("3DIP") were designed to take advantage of the interpretative 
functionality offered by 3D inversion techniques. Unlike conventional 2DIP, the electrode arrays are 
no longer restricted to an in-line geometry. In the standard 3DIP configuration, a receiver array is 
established along a survey line while current electrodes are located on two adjacent lines. Current 
electrodes are advanced along the adjacent lines at fixed increments (25, 50, 100 or 200 m). A typical 
receiver array consists of 12 to 16 dipoles separated by the same interval as the current lines or by 
some multiple of that interval. These spacings are sometimes modified to compensate for local 
conditions, such as inaccessible sites and streams, or the overall conductivity of ground.  Receiver 
arrays are typically established on every second line. By injecting multiple current locations to a single 
receiver electrode array, data acquisition rates are significantly improved over conventional surveys. 
 

A) Instrumentation: The geophysical instrumentation used to acquire the 3DIP data consisted of SJ 
Geophysics proprietary SJ-24 full waveform receiver.  A GDD Tx II transmitter was used to 
inject the current into the ground.   The 3DIP potential array was connected using special 8-
conductor cables with 50m takeouts for the potential electrodes. For the potential line, the 
electrodes consisted of stainless steel pins, 50cm long and 10mm in diameter, which were 
hammered into the ground. At each current station (50m intervals), current was injected using 
two long (75 cm) stainless steel electrodes hammered into the ground. The remote current 
locations consisted of four 1m stainless steel rods, 15mm in diameter. 

B) Survey Procedure: In the standard 3DIP configuration, a receiver array is established along a 
survey line while current electrodes are located on two adjacent lines. Current electrodes were 
advanced along the adjacent lines at fixed increments, 50m. The receiver array varied 
throughout the survey with a minimum 16, 50m dipoles. On occasion, two receivers were 
operating simultaneously thus increasing the acquired dipoles up to 32 dipoles. Receiver arrays 
are typically established on every second line. By injecting multiple current locations to a 
single receiver electrode array, data acquisition rates are significantly improved over 
conventional surveys. 

C) Data Reduction: Each evening, the analyzed data are imported into JavIP: a proprietary IP 
database management system developed by S.J.V. Consultants Ltd. This package integrates the 
locational information with each reading, thus allowing the calculation of the apparent 
resistivity and apparent chargeability. The package's interactive quality control tools, plot of 
decay curves, table of calculated parameters and a dot plot (graphical display of data of the 
various parameters), provide the field geophysicist a method to verify each data point. After 
the field geophysicist removes known bad points from field observations and other obvious 
outliers, the database is delivered to S.J.V. Consultants Ltd. (SJV) for a second review.  The 
second review is more stringent; the data is scrutinized to ensure erroneous data points are not 
passed along to the next stage of processing: the inversion. SJV predominately uses the UBC-



Gold Summit Project, September 2011 

Havilah Mines Ltd. 

42 
M Moore  P. Geo 

GIF algorithms to invert their geophysical data. The data collected on the Gold Summit project 
was of good quality. The Vp's, for the most part, were strong and the signals and resulting 
decay curves were mostly clean. Whenever possible, two receivers were used to speed up 
production and increase depth penetration. In most cases, one receiver recorded a full 16 dipole 
array while the second receiver recorded between 8 to 16 dipoles. On the Gold Summit project 
most of the data attrition was caused by non-coupling (where the dipoles adjacent to the 
injection point have poor signal strength). 

 
11.2 Author July 09, 2011 Property Examination Sampling 
During the July 09, 2011 property exam, the author collected seven rock samples from outcrops or 
float material; some of which have been previously sampled. All samples were secured in plastic 
sample bags, sealed and labelled with a unique sample number (MMR-11-01 to MMR-11-07). The 
location of each sample was noted, in UTM coordinates (NAD83 datum), with the aid of a hand-held 
GPS (Garmin Map60CS; accuracy ±6m). The samples were under the author"s care and control from 
the moment of collection to delivery to the AcmeLabs facility in Vancouver BC. Appendix B contains 
the analysis certificates for the samples. 
 
As stated above, rock samples collected by the author were under his care and control from the 
moment of collection to delivery to the laboratory in Vancouver. All seven rock samples were 
subjected to the following analytical procedure.  Preparation for all rock samples was to crush 1 kg to 
80% passing 10 mesh, split 250g and pulverize to 85% passing 200 mesh (Group R200-250). A 0.5-
gram cut of the -150-mesh material from each sample was then subjected to an aqua regia digestion, 
then analyzed for 37-elements (including gold) by ICP-MS analysis (AcmeLabs; Group 1F01). All 
samples were also analysed by fire assay methods, using a second 30-gram split of the –150 mesh 
material (Group G601). All sample pulps and rejects have been discarded. The analytical data is 
tabulated in electronic files in a metric database (Microsoft Excel spread sheet).   
 
 
12.0 DATA VERIFICATION-QUALITY ASSURANCE-QUALITY CONTROL 
 
12.1 Authors Database Audit  
 
A formal audit of the property database was not undertaken by the author. The author has selectively 
verified a number of rock/soil sample data for the 2008-2011 era work against original assay 
certificates and their associated maps and figures. The author recommends that during future project 
data compilation or exploration, the database should be carefully audited and, if errors are found, 
corrected.  

Property assessment reports were prepared to standards specific to the era of the BC Mining Act and 
they differ from those currently prescribed by National Instrument 43-101. In addition, these assessment 
reports were submitted prior to the current requirement for complete data records, including geological 
observations and other primary documentation (such as certificate of analysis and detailed rock 
descriptions), which would permit the author to verify the accuracy and internal consistency of the 
results presented. Despite the differences between the standard to which these reports were prepared 
and that required by National Instrument 43-101, the data contained in these reports appear to be valid 
and reliable. 
 



Gold Summit Project, September 2011 

Havilah Mines Ltd. 

43 
M Moore  P. Geo 

The sampling procedures, sample-handling protocols, assaying methods and quality control measures 
for pre-1980 exploration programs of the Gold Summit property are non-existent. Reports for the 
historical 1980 to 1994 era Quinto Mining and Gold Summit Mines exploration efforts do not include 
complete explanations of sampling protocols. Therefore, a comprehensive review of procedures and 
protocols the Gold Summit is difficult to account. Overall, the author assumes that standard mineral 
exploration industry care and control typical of each exploration era was observed.  
 
 
12.2 Author Independent Samples 
The author of this report, Michael Moore P. Geo, conducted a field visit to the Gold Summit property 
on July 09, 2011. Note that the author did complete an earlier property inspection on September 03, 
2004 as part of a previous technical report (Moore 2007). The following objectives were 
accomplished: project site examination, review of property geology, styles of mineralization-alteration 
and rock sample collection. Seven rock samples were collected from surface sedimentary rock 
exposures displaying iron oxide alteration or hosting quartz veining. Three areas southwest of the Adit 
Zone were visited and sampled. The author documented property terrain, select showings and also 
collected a few still photography images. Appendix B contains the author sample descriptions and 
AcmeLabs analysis certificates. 
 
The author believes that sufficient sites of significance were inspected to make a quality assessment of 
the Gold Summit property. The author reports that, overall, geology, mineralization and showings 
referred to in the historical records are genuine. Based upon the property examination and review of 
past exploration results, it is the author"s opinion that this is a property of merit and worthy of further 
exploration. 
 
On the whole, the analyses of samples collected by the author (both in 2004 and 2011) are reasonably 
comparable with those of historical record. The polymetallic nature of mineralization is confirmed by 
the author"s sampling. In most cases, base metal (lead, zinc  copper) and pathfinder elements (arsenic, 
mercury, antimony  molybdenum) concentrations are coincidently anomalous with gold enrichment. 
Furthermore, silver values have a strong positive correlation to elevated gold numbers. Analytical 
results indicate that there is a moderate coarse grained gold or nugget effect; therefore all future 
sampling protocols should strive to minimize this difficulty.  
 
 
13.0 MINERAL PROCESSING & METALLURGICAL TESTING 
This section is not applicable as the Gold Summit property is an early stage prospect.  
 
14.0 MINERAL RESORUCE ESTIMATES 
This section is not applicable as the Gold Summit property is an early stage prospect.  
 
15.0 MINERAL RESERVE ESTIMATES 
This section is not applicable as the Gold Summit property is an early stage prospect.  
 
16.0 MINING METHODS 
This section is not applicable as the Gold Summit property is an early stage prospect.  
 
17.0 RECOVERY METHODS 



Gold Summit Project, September 2011 

Havilah Mines Ltd. 

44 
M Moore  P. Geo 

This section is not applicable as the Gold Summit property is an early stage prospect.  
 
18.0 PROJECT INFRASTRUCTURE 
This section is not applicable as the Gold Summit property is an early stage prospect.  
 
19.0 MARKET STUDIES & CONTRACTS 
This section is not applicable as the Gold Summit property is an early stage prospect.  
 
20.0 ENVIRNOMENTAL STUDIES, PERMITTING, & SOCIAL-COMMUNITY IMPACT 
This section is not applicable as the Gold Summit property is an early stage prospect.  
 
21.0 CAPITAL & OPERATING COSTS  
This section is not applicable as the Gold Summit property is an early stage prospect.  
 
22.0 ECONONMIC ANALYASIS 
This section is not applicable as the Gold Summit property is an early stage prospect.  
 
23.0 ADJACENT PROPERTIES 
(After BC Minfile website search July 28, 2011) (see Figure 4.2). 
 
Contiguous on the northeast border of the Gold Summit property, is a collection of competitors claims 
controlled by Miocene Metals; called the Shulaps Property.  
 
Contiguous to the north property boundary, is claim 511149, which is held by Gray Rock Resources 
(BC ID 110243). This claim is part of that company"s Silver Stream Project.  
 
 
24.0 OTHER RELEVANT DATA AND INFORMATION 
The author is not aware of any other relevant information that would change the conclusions or 
recommendations of this report. 



Gold Summit Project, September 2011 

Havilah Mines Ltd. 

45 
M Moore  P. Geo 

25.0 INTERPRETATION AND CONCLUSIONS  
 
The findings of the Gold Summit property evaluation are as follows. 
 
The Gold Summit property is an early stage gold exploration venture, located in a prolific Bridge 
River gold-silver mining camp (Bralorne-Pioneer). It is situated in the politically stable and mineral 
exploration affable province of British Columbia, Canada. The property is located in the southwest 
region of the province, where access and logistics are relatively simple and inexpensive. Property 
terrain is typical of the Coastal Mountain range, where topography is moderate to locally steep and 
covered by varying thicknesses of Quaternary overburden. Overall, property overburden depths will 
not greatly hamper most future exploration efforts. Extensive winter snow will restrict exploration 
efforts to the summer and fall months, particularly at the property"s higher elevations. 
 
Since 1907, intermittent historical exploration efforts have identified a number of roughly east 
trending, shear hosted, mesothermal gold-silver  polymetallic quartz vein occurrences. The most 
prominent of these occurrences is the Adit Zone. In many cases, vein-shear occurrences pinch and 
swell or are structurally offset. Precious and base metal enrichment has been shown to be highly 
variable along the strike of the vein-hosting structures; likely concentrating in structurally controlled 
shoots or zones of dilation. Samples collected from mineralized quartz veins can yield high-grade gold 
assay values to greater than 1.0 opt, but are more commonly are on the order of 0.1 to 0.3 opt. The 
local variability of precious metal analyses has drawn attention to the probability of a coarse grain 
gold or nugget effect on assay results.  
 
Property gold mineralization is not limited to shear-zone bound sulphide enriched quartz veins. In two 
separate property locations, past physical work has exposed modestly gold enriched feldspar 
porphyry/mafic dykes, with related quartz veining. Future exploration efforts should incorporate, as a 
minimum, an examination of these intriguing low-grade targets.  
 
Soil sample surveys have proven to be a cost effective method of isolating both broad and locally 
prospective areas of overburden masked mineralization. Potential areas are often defined by a limited 
cluster or single sample site anomalies, particularly in the case of gold. Slope dispersion, areas 
profound soil depth and the presence of a thin volcanic ash layer in the soil profile can have adverse 
affects and thus hinder effective interpretation. Follow-up mechanized trenching of soil anomalies has 
been an inexpensive method for exposing and providing access to potential soil covered mineralized 
structures. 
 
The 2011 geophysical surveys have defined a large, open ended, northeast to east trending 
geophysically anomalous zone which is loosely coincident with the property"s main gold in soil 
anomaly. These geophysical surveys did not definitively identify or assist in the extension of the 
property"s historical shear hosted gold mineralization. Defining these narrow gold enriched structures 
continues to be a challenge.   
 
The newly identified composite geophysical zone presents a new and intriguing exploration target and 
is an appealing addition to the property"s established shear-hosted high grade gold quartz vein targets. 
 



Gold Summit Project, September 2011 

Havilah Mines Ltd. 

46 
M Moore  P. Geo 

The author is not aware of any significant risks or uncertainties or any reasonably foreseeable impacts 
thereof that could reasonably be expected to affect the reliability or confidence of this report"s 
exploration information and/or the Gold Summit project future potential.  
 
None of the property priority showings and anomalies has been fully tested by modern systematic 
physical, geochemical, geophysical or drilling methods. Based upon the property examination and 
review of past exploration results, it is the authors opinion that this is a property of merit and worthy 
of further exploration. 
 
 
26.0 RECOMMENDATIONS  
 
It is recommended herein that Havilah carry out additional exploration efforts on the Gold Summit 
property. An initial $250,000 exploration program is recommended. See Table 26.0. 
 
The newly identified composite geophysical zone, which is loosely coincident with the property"s 
main gold in soil anomaly, presents a new and intriguing exploration target and compliments the 
property"s established shear-hosted high grade gold quartz vein targets. The recommended Phase One 
program focuses on (a) extending and refining the composite geophysical anomaly and associated soil 
anomaly and (b) locating and sampling additional shear-hosted high grade gold structures. The 
program gives a secondary focus to the gold enriched feldspar porphyry lithologies as intriguing low-
grade bulk mining targets.  
 
Havilah"s Phase One Program should include expanding the 2011 cut line grid both to the northeast 
and southwest. The SW expansion should include an additional eight – 100m spaced lines, while the 
NE expansion an additional ten – 100m spaced lines; totalling an estimated 36 km of grid line. 
Experienced geologists should detail geological map and prospect the entire grid with particular 
emphasis on potential mineralizing structural features. Soil samples should be collected from those 
areas which have no existing coverage. The newly established grid should be geophysically survey by 
(i) magnetics and dual station VLF-EM and (ii) 3D inversion induced polarization. The 2011 grid 
should be surveyed by the dual station VLF-EM and a perhaps test re-survey by horizontal loop EM. 
All of the geophysical surveys must be supervised and interpreted by an independent and experienced 
geophysicist. The non-grid areas of the property should be detailed prospected and sampled (rocks & 
silts) with the goal of identifying new gold targets, either structurally bound or porphyry related.  
 
The author recommends that Havilah initiate preliminary consultations with local First Nations 
representatives and also contact the appropriate government agency for permits and bonding as they 
will be required for the Phase One Program. Priority exploration targets indentified via the Phase One 
Program would then be the focus of the recommended Phase Two program.  
 
The size and scope of the Phase Two program, consisting of trenching and diamond drilling of priority 
targets, would be contingent on the results of Phase One explorations.  A preliminary budget of $1.2 
million is suggested.  
 



Gold Summit Project, September 2011 

Havilah Mines Ltd. 

47 
M Moore  P. Geo 

Table 26.0 Gold Summit Exploration Budgets 
 
Phase One Gold Summit Exploration Budget 
Permitting and First Nation Consultations………………………………….…...    6,000 
Ground Geophysical Surveys 
 Magnetics & VLF-EM (36 km at ~$650 per km)……..…………………....….    24,000 
 3D IP (36 km at ~$3,000 per km)……………………..…………………....….  108,000 
 Geophysical Consultant Oversee & Interpretation…………….........….……..  10,000 
Cutline Control Grid (36 km @ $415 per km)…..……………….........….……..  15,000 
Property-wide & Grid mapping and prospecting  
 Geologists (2x 19 days @ $550 per day)…………..……………………….….   21,000 
 Prospectors & Assistances (2x20 days @ $350 per day)……….……………..    14,000 
Sample analyses: Rock-silt-soil 425 @ $35 per sample………...………….…   15,000 
Camp, support staff & equipment rental, accommodations ………………………   22,000 
Reporting………...…….…………………………………………………………     5,000 
Miscellaneous & Contingency ……..................................................................….    10,000 
         Total Cost  $ 250,000 
 
Suggested Phase Two Program Budget 
Permitting and First Nation Consultations…..……..……………………………...   20,000 
Geologists (2x90 days @ $550 per day)…………..…………………………….   99,000 
Prospectors & Assistances (2x90 days @ $350 per day)………..……………..    63,000 
Specialized Technical Consultants..……………………………………………...   15,000 
Road rehabilitation & Mechanized trenching………...…….………….…………   75,000 
Ground Geophysical Surveys………..…………………………………………... 150,000 
Diamond Drilling (@ $150/meter) 
 Estimated 13 holes at average depth of 150m 2,000 meter program……..... 300,000 
Drill pads + Reclamation…..……..……………………………………………...   50,000 
Sample analyses: Rock-soil 4,000 @ $35 per sample………...…….…………… 140,000 
Camp, support staff & equipment rental ..……………………………………… 100,000 
Fuel..……………………………………………………......................................   35,000 
Miscellaneous supplies………………………………………..……..…………...   25,000 
Logistics (vehicle, travel, etc)……………………..……...………………………   20,000 
Reporting…………………………….…………………………………….……..   20,000 
Miscellaneous & contingency ……...................................................................... 88,000 
  Total Cost     $ 1,200,000 
 
Both Phase One & Two programs will require the posting of a cash reclamation bond. These sums are not 

included here as the author cannot reliably estimate the monetary size of these items.  

 



Gold Summit Project, September 2011 

Havilah Mines Ltd. 

48 
M Moore  P. Geo 

27.0 REFERENCES 
 
GOVERNMENT WEBSITES 
Government of British Columbia Minfile web site http://webmaps.gov.bc.ca 
 
Government of British Columbia mineral deposit profiles web site 

 www.em.gov.bc.ca/Mining/Geolsurv/MetallicMinerals/MineralDepositProfiles) 
 
Government of British Columbia Map Place web site 

www.em.gov.bc.ca/Mining/Geolsurv/MapPlace/default.htm 
 
Government of Canada Weather website: www.weatheroffice.ec.gc.ca 
 
GSC website Mineral deposits of Canada: http://gsc.nrcan.gc.ca/mindep/synth_dep/porph/index_e.php 
 
British Columbia Treaty Commission website: www.bctreaty.net 
 
British Columbia Ministry of Aboriginal Relations and Reconciliation: http://www.gov.bc.ca/arr/firstnation/ 
 
BC First Nations Summit website: http://www.fns.bc.ca/ 
 
Indian and Northern Affairs Canada:   www.ainc-inac.gc.ca 
 
 
Brewer, L., 1988: Geophysical Report on the Airborne Magnetic and VLF-EM Survey over the Fringe 

Benefit, Summit 1-4, Shadow of Doubt, and Glamorous Gold Claims, Marshall Creek Area BC. 
Columbia Airborne Geophysical; Written for Gold Summit Resources Ltd.  

 
Gaba, R.G., Schiarizza, P., Coleman, M., Garver, J.I., Glover, J.K., 1989: Geology and Mineral 

Occurrences of the Yalkakom River Area; British Columbia Geological Survey, Geological 
Fieldwork 1989, Paper 1990-1. 
 

Gold Summit Mines, 1994: 1994 Diamond Drilling Results; News Release September 19, 1994. 
 
Government of British Columbia Department of Mines Annual Reports 1907, 1910 & 1945. 
 
Howlett, J. (2003): Bralorne-Pioneer Gold Mines Corporate Information circular, Howlett Research. 
 
Landsberg, N.R. 1981: Geological Report Marshall Ridge project. Quinto Mining Corp. 

BC Assessment Report 10,695. 
 
Miller-Tait, J., 1990a: Trenching Program on the Summit Property. March 1990 for Gold Summit 

Mines Ltd. BC Assessment Report 19,936. 
 
Miller-Tait, J., 1990b: Reconnaissance Geochemical and geological mapping on the Summit 5 Claim.  

November 1990 for Gold Summit Mines Ltd. BC Assessment Report 20,432. 
 
Miller-Tait, J., 1990c: Soil geochemistry, Geological mapping and Trenching on the Summit Claims for Gold 

Summit Mines. March 1990. BC Assessment Report 21,159. 
 
 



Gold Summit Project, September 2011 

Havilah Mines Ltd. 

49 
M Moore  P. Geo 

Miller-Tait, J., and Church, C. 1994: Soil geochemistry, Trenching and Drilling Summit Claims for Gold 
Summit Mines. October 1994. BC Assessment Report 23,627. 

 
Moore, M. 2007: Technical Review Gold Summit Project British Columbia, Canada. NI 43-101 report for Chi  

Cha Na Mining Inc. March 14, 2007.  
 
Reid, E. 2006: Report on the 2005 Diamond Drilling Program on the Silver Stream Property. Gray Rock   

Resources Ltd.  NI 43-01 Technical report Dated: July 29, 2006.  
 
Sampson, C.J., 1988: Report on Geological Mapping, Geochemical Soil Sampling and Prospecting, 

Summit Claims; September 1988; for Gold Summit Mines Ltd. BC Assessment Report 17,958. 
 
Thom, J. 2008: Geochemical report on the Gold Summit Property 2008. St. Elias Mines.  

BC Assessment Report 30,975.  
 
Thom, J. 2010: Geochemical report on the Gold Summit Property 2010. St. Elias Mines. 

  BC Assessment Report confidential.  
 
White, G.E., 1981: Geophysical-Geochemical Report PS, Tomkon, Ken & Snoball Claims. Quinto Mining 

Corp., BC Assessment Report 10,453. 
 
White, G.E., 1982: Induced Polarization Survey. Quinto Mining Corp. BC Assessment Report 11,224. 



Gold Summit Project, September 2011 

Havilah Mines Ltd. 

50 
M Moore  P. Geo 

28.0 AUTHOR CERTIFICATES, SIGNATURES AND CONSCENT 
 

MICHAEL MOORE, P. GEO 
CERTIFICATE OF QUALIFIED PERSON 

 
I, Michael P. Moore, P. Geo., HEREBY CERTIFY THAT: 
 
1. I am an independent consulting geologist with a business address at 470 Granville Street, Suite 520, 
Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada V6C 1V5, phone (604) 687 7178. 
 
2. I am a graduate of Carleton University, Ottawa, Ontario, with a Bachelor of Science (Honours) in 
Geology (1989). 
 
3. I am a registered Professional Geologist in good standing with the Association of Professional 
Engineers and Geoscientists of British Columbia (APEGBC), member number 21586.  
 
4. I have worked as a geologist for a total of 22 years since graduating from university.  I have work 
experience in most parts of Canada, as well as the United States, Ghana, Peru and Cuba.  I have both narrow 
vein gold deposit and intrusive host gold deposit exploration experience in British Columbia, Yukon, Peru, 
Greenland and Ghana. 
 
5. I have read the definition of "qualified person" set out in National Instrument 43-101 ("NI 43-101") and 
certify that by reason of my education, affiliation with a professional association (as defined in NI 43-101) and 
past relevant work experience, I fulfill the requirement to be a "qualified person" for the purposes of NI 43-101. 
 
6. I am responsible for the preparation of all items and sections of the technical report titled "Technical 
Review Gold Summit Project" prepared for St. Elias Mines Ltd. and Havilah Mines Ltd. with an effective date 
of September 05, 2011 (the "Technical Report") relating to the Gold Summit property.   
 
7. I personally inspected the Gold Summit property on the day of July 09, 2011.  
 
8. I have had prior involvement with the Gold Summit property, the subject of the Technical Report.  I 
was the author of an earlier NI 43-101 compliant technical report dated July 09, 2007 on the Gold Summit 
property prepared for Chi Cha Na Mining Inc.  
 
9. As of the effective date of the Technical Report, to the best of my knowledge, information and belief, 
the Technical Report contains all scientific and technical information that is required to be disclosed to make 
the Technical Report not misleading.  
 
10. I am independent of St. Elias Mines Ltd. and Havilah Mines Ltd. applying all of the tests in section 1.5 
of NI 43-101.  
 
11. I have read NI 43-101 and Form 43-101F1, and the Technical Report has been prepared in compliance 
with that instrument and form. 
  
"signed & sealed"  
Michael Moore, B.Sc.  P. Geo. 
Dated at Vancouver, B.C.   
October 04, 2011 



Gold Summit Project, September 2011 

Havilah Mines Ltd. 

51 
M Moore  P. Geo 

Appendix A  2011 Geophysical Surveys Figures 



Gold in soil zones (strong east-west contour basis)



Gold in soil zones (strong east-west contour basis)



800

900

1000

1100

1200

1300

1400

1500

1600

800

900

1000

1100

1200

1300

1400

1500

1600

5
2

0
0

E

5
4

0
0

E

5
6

0
0

E

5
8

0
0

E

6
0

0
0

E 6
2

0
0

E

6
4

0
0

E

6
8

0
0

E

Elevation
    (m)

Elevation
    (m)

Interpreted Resistivity (ohm−m)

ohm−m

 Survey Stations

 Area of Low Model Confidence

> 5000

2500 − 5000

1500 − 2500

1000 − 1500

750 − 1000

500 − 750

350 − 500

250 − 350

150 − 250

100 − 150

50 − 100

< 50

800

900

1000

1100

1200

1300

1400

1500

1600

800

900

1000

1100

1200

1300

1400

1500

1600

5
2

0
0

E

5
4

0
0

E

5
6

0
0

E

5
8

0
0

E

6
0

0
0

E 6
2

0
0

E

6
4

0
0

E

6
8

0
0

E

Elevation
    (m)

Elevation
    (m)

Interpreted Chargeability (ms)

ms

 Survey Stations

 Area of Low Model Confidence

> 35

30 − 35

25 − 30

20 − 25

15 − 20

12 − 15

9 − 12

6 − 9

4 − 6

3 − 4

2 − 3

< 2

5
6

3
7

0
0

0
N

5
6

3
6

0
0

0
N

5
6

3
5

0
0

0
N

532000E 533000E 534000E

5800N

5900N

6000N

6100N

6200N

6300N

6400N

6500N

6600N

6700N

50
00

E

52
00

E

54
00

E

56
00

E

58
00

E

60
00

E

62
00

E

64
00

E

66
00

E

68
00

E

70
00

E

50
00

E

52
00

E

54
00

E

56
00

E

58
00

E

60
00

E

62
00

E

64
00

E

66
00

E

68
00

E

70
00

E

1
3
0
0

1
4
0
0

1
4
0
0

15
00

Carpenter

   Lake

INDEX MAP: LINE 6300N

Mapping By : S.J.V. Consultants Ltd.  11966−95A Avenue, Delta, British Columbia, Canada V4C 3W2 (604) 582−1100   www.sjgeophysics.com

Project Information:
   Survey by: SJ Geophysics Ltd.
   3D Inversion by: S.J.V. Consultants Ltd.
   Survey Date: July 2011

Instrumentation:
   Receiver: SJ−24 Full−Waveform Digital IP Receiver
   Transmitter: GDD TX II
   Array Type: 3D

Mapping Information:
   Datum: NAD83
   Projection: UTM Zone 10
   Mapping Date: 26−Aug−2011

St. Elias Mines Ltd.
Gold Summit Property

IP Grid

Lillooet, B.C.

3D Inversion Model
of

Interpreted
Resistivity & Chargeability

Cross Section Map

Section: 6300N

0 100 200 300 400 500

meters



800

900

1000

1100

1200

1300

1400

1500

1600

800

900

1000

1100

1200

1300

1400

1500

1600

5
2

0
0

E 5
4

0
0

E

5
6

0
0

E

5
8

0
0

E

6
0

0
0

E 6
2

0
0

E

6
6

0
0

E

6
8

0
0

E

Elevation
    (m)

Elevation
    (m)

Interpreted Resistivity (ohm−m)

ohm−m

 Survey Stations

 Area of Low Model Confidence

> 5000

2500 − 5000

1500 − 2500

1000 − 1500

750 − 1000

500 − 750

350 − 500

250 − 350

150 − 250

100 − 150

50 − 100

< 50

800

900

1000

1100

1200

1300

1400

1500

1600

800

900

1000

1100

1200

1300

1400

1500

1600

5
2

0
0

E 5
4

0
0

E

5
6

0
0

E

5
8

0
0

E

6
0

0
0

E 6
2

0
0

E

6
6

0
0

E

6
8

0
0

E

Elevation
    (m)

Elevation
    (m)

Interpreted Chargeability (ms)

ms

 Survey Stations

 Area of Low Model Confidence

> 35

30 − 35

25 − 30

20 − 25

15 − 20

12 − 15

9 − 12

6 − 9

4 − 6

3 − 4

2 − 3

< 2

5
6

3
7

0
0

0
N

5
6

3
6

0
0

0
N

5
6

3
5

0
0

0
N

532000E 533000E 534000E

5800N

5900N

6000N

6100N

6200N

6300N

6400N

6500N

6600N

6700N

50
00

E

52
00

E

54
00

E

56
00

E

58
00

E

60
00

E

62
00

E

64
00

E

66
00

E

68
00

E

70
00

E

50
00

E

52
00

E

54
00

E

56
00

E

58
00

E

60
00

E

62
00

E

64
00

E

66
00

E

68
00

E

70
00

E

1
3
0
0

1
4
0
0

1
4
0
0

15
00

Carpenter

   Lake

INDEX MAP: LINE 6400N

Mapping By : S.J.V. Consultants Ltd.  11966−95A Avenue, Delta, British Columbia, Canada V4C 3W2 (604) 582−1100   www.sjgeophysics.com

Project Information:
   Survey by: SJ Geophysics Ltd.
   3D Inversion by: S.J.V. Consultants Ltd.
   Survey Date: July 2011

Instrumentation:
   Receiver: SJ−24 Full−Waveform Digital IP Receiver
   Transmitter: GDD TX II
   Array Type: 3D

Mapping Information:
   Datum: NAD83
   Projection: UTM Zone 10
   Mapping Date: 26−Aug−2011

St. Elias Mines Ltd.
Gold Summit Property

IP Grid

Lillooet, B.C.

3D Inversion Model
of

Interpreted
Resistivity & Chargeability

Cross Section Map

Section: 6400N

0 100 200 300 400 500

meters



800

900

1000

1100

1200

1300

1400

1500

1600

800

900

1000

1100

1200

1300

1400

1500

1600

5
2

0
0

E

5
4

0
0

E

5
6

0
0

E

5
8

0
0

E

6
0

0
0

E 6
2

0
0

E

6
4

0
0

E

6
6

0
0

E

6
8

0
0

EElevation    (m)
Elevation
    (m)

Interpreted Resistivity (ohm−m)

ohm−m

 Survey Stations

 Area of Low Model Confidence

> 5000

2500 − 5000

1500 − 2500

1000 − 1500

750 − 1000

500 − 750

350 − 500

250 − 350

150 − 250

100 − 150

50 − 100

< 50

800

900

1000

1100

1200

1300

1400

1500

1600

800

900

1000

1100

1200

1300

1400

1500

1600

5
2

0
0

E

5
4

0
0

E

5
6

0
0

E

5
8

0
0

E

6
0

0
0

E 6
2

0
0

E

6
4

0
0

E

6
6

0
0

E

6
8

0
0

EElevation    (m)
Elevation
    (m)

Interpreted Chargeability (ms)

ms

 Survey Stations

 Area of Low Model Confidence

> 35

30 − 35

25 − 30

20 − 25

15 − 20

12 − 15

9 − 12

6 − 9

4 − 6

3 − 4

2 − 3

< 2

5
6

3
7

0
0

0
N

5
6

3
6

0
0

0
N

5
6

3
5

0
0

0
N

532000E 533000E 534000E

5800N

5900N

6000N

6100N

6200N

6300N

6400N

6500N

6600N

6700N

50
00

E

52
00

E

54
00

E

56
00

E

58
00

E

60
00

E

62
00

E

64
00

E

66
00

E

68
00

E

70
00

E

50
00

E

52
00

E

54
00

E

56
00

E

58
00

E

60
00

E

62
00

E

64
00

E

66
00

E

68
00

E

70
00

E

1
3
0
0

1
4
0
0

1
4
0
0

15
00

Carpenter

   Lake

INDEX MAP: LINE 6500N

Mapping By : S.J.V. Consultants Ltd.  11966−95A Avenue, Delta, British Columbia, Canada V4C 3W2 (604) 582−1100   www.sjgeophysics.com

Project Information:
   Survey by: SJ Geophysics Ltd.
   3D Inversion by: S.J.V. Consultants Ltd.
   Survey Date: July 2011

Instrumentation:
   Receiver: SJ−24 Full−Waveform Digital IP Receiver
   Transmitter: GDD TX II
   Array Type: 3D

Mapping Information:
   Datum: NAD83
   Projection: UTM Zone 10
   Mapping Date: 26−Aug−2011

St. Elias Mines Ltd.
Gold Summit Property

IP Grid

Lillooet, B.C.

3D Inversion Model
of

Interpreted
Resistivity & Chargeability

Cross Section Map

Section: 6500N

0 100 200 300 400 500

meters



800

900

1000

1100

1200

1300

1400

1500

1600

800

900

1000

1100

1200

1300

1400

1500

1600

5
2

0
0

E

5
4

0
0

E

5
6

0
0

E

5
8

0
0

E

6
0

0
0

E 6
2

0
0

E

6
4

0
0

E 6
6

0
0

E

6
8

0
0

EElevation
    (m)

Elevation
    (m)

Interpreted Resistivity (ohm−m)

ohm−m

 Survey Stations

 Area of Low Model Confidence

> 5000

2500 − 5000

1500 − 2500

1000 − 1500

750 − 1000

500 − 750

350 − 500

250 − 350

150 − 250

100 − 150

50 − 100

< 50

800

900

1000

1100

1200

1300

1400

1500

1600

800

900

1000

1100

1200

1300

1400

1500

1600

5
2

0
0

E

5
4

0
0

E

5
6

0
0

E

5
8

0
0

E

6
0

0
0

E 6
2

0
0

E

6
4

0
0

E 6
6

0
0

E

6
8

0
0

EElevation
    (m)

Elevation
    (m)

Interpreted Chargeability (ms)

ms

 Survey Stations

 Area of Low Model Confidence

> 35

30 − 35

25 − 30

20 − 25

15 − 20

12 − 15

9 − 12

6 − 9

4 − 6

3 − 4

2 − 3

< 2

5
6

3
7

0
0

0
N

5
6

3
6

0
0

0
N

5
6

3
5

0
0

0
N

532000E 533000E 534000E

5800N

5900N

6000N

6100N

6200N

6300N

6400N

6500N

6600N

6700N

50
00

E

52
00

E

54
00

E

56
00

E

58
00

E

60
00

E

62
00

E

64
00

E

66
00

E

68
00

E

70
00

E

50
00

E

52
00

E

54
00

E

56
00

E

58
00

E

60
00

E

62
00

E

64
00

E

66
00

E

68
00

E

70
00

E

1
3
0
0

1
4
0
0

1
4
0
0

15
00

Carpenter

   Lake

INDEX MAP: LINE 6600N

Mapping By : S.J.V. Consultants Ltd.  11966−95A Avenue, Delta, British Columbia, Canada V4C 3W2 (604) 582−1100   www.sjgeophysics.com

Project Information:
   Survey by: SJ Geophysics Ltd.
   3D Inversion by: S.J.V. Consultants Ltd.
   Survey Date: July 2011

Instrumentation:
   Receiver: SJ−24 Full−Waveform Digital IP Receiver
   Transmitter: GDD TX II
   Array Type: 3D

Mapping Information:
   Datum: NAD83
   Projection: UTM Zone 10
   Mapping Date: 26−Aug−2011

St. Elias Mines Ltd.
Gold Summit Property

IP Grid

Lillooet, B.C.

3D Inversion Model
of

Interpreted
Resistivity & Chargeability

Cross Section Map

Section: 6600N

0 100 200 300 400 500

meters



800

900

1000

1100

1200

1300

1400

1500

1600

800

900

1000

1100

1200

1300

1400

1500

1600

5
2

0
0

E

5
4

0
0

E

5
6

0
0

E

5
8

0
0

E

6
0

0
0

E 6
2

0
0

E

6
4

0
0

E 6
6

0
0

E 6
8

0
0

E

Elevation
    (m)

Elevation
    (m)

Interpreted Resistivity (ohm−m)

ohm−m

 Survey Stations

 Area of Low Model Confidence

> 5000

2500 − 5000

1500 − 2500

1000 − 1500

750 − 1000

500 − 750

350 − 500

250 − 350

150 − 250

100 − 150

50 − 100

< 50

800

900

1000

1100

1200

1300

1400

1500

1600

800

900

1000

1100

1200

1300

1400

1500

1600

5
2

0
0

E

5
4

0
0

E

5
6

0
0

E

5
8

0
0

E

6
0

0
0

E 6
2

0
0

E

6
4

0
0

E 6
6

0
0

E 6
8

0
0

E

Elevation
    (m)

Elevation
    (m)

Interpreted Chargeability (ms)

ms

 Survey Stations

 Area of Low Model Confidence

> 35

30 − 35

25 − 30

20 − 25

15 − 20

12 − 15

9 − 12

6 − 9

4 − 6

3 − 4

2 − 3

< 2

5
6

3
7

0
0

0
N

5
6

3
6

0
0

0
N

5
6

3
5

0
0

0
N

532000E 533000E 534000E

5800N

5900N

6000N

6100N

6200N

6300N

6400N

6500N

6600N

6700N

50
00

E

52
00

E

54
00

E

56
00

E

58
00

E

60
00

E

62
00

E

64
00

E

66
00

E

68
00

E

70
00

E

50
00

E

52
00

E

54
00

E

56
00

E

58
00

E

60
00

E

62
00

E

64
00

E

66
00

E

68
00

E

70
00

E

1
3
0
0

1
4
0
0

1
4
0
0

15
00

Carpenter

   Lake

INDEX MAP: LINE 6700N

Mapping By : S.J.V. Consultants Ltd.  11966−95A Avenue, Delta, British Columbia, Canada V4C 3W2 (604) 582−1100   www.sjgeophysics.com

Project Information:
   Survey by: SJ Geophysics Ltd.
   3D Inversion by: S.J.V. Consultants Ltd.
   Survey Date: July 2011

Instrumentation:
   Receiver: SJ−24 Full−Waveform Digital IP Receiver
   Transmitter: GDD TX II
   Array Type: 3D

Mapping Information:
   Datum: NAD83
   Projection: UTM Zone 10
   Mapping Date: 26−Aug−2011

St. Elias Mines Ltd.
Gold Summit Property

IP Grid

Lillooet, B.C.

3D Inversion Model
of

Interpreted
Resistivity & Chargeability

Cross Section Map

Section: 6700N

0 100 200 300 400 500

meters































5
6

3
7

0
0

0
N

5
6

3
6

5
0

0
N

5
6

3
6

0
0

0
N

5
6

3
5

5
0

0
N

5
6

3
5

0
0

0
N

532000E 532500E 533000E 533500E 534000E 534500E

5800N

5900N

6000N

6100N

6200N

6300N

6400N

6500N

6600N

6700N

Tx

Rc

Tx

Rc

Tx

50
00

E

52
00

E

54
00

E

56
00

E

58
00

E

60
00

E

62
00

E

64
00

E

66
00

E

68
00

E

70
00

E

50
00

E

52
00

E

54
00

E

56
00

E

58
00

E

60
00

E

62
00

E

64
00

E

66
00

E

68
00

E

70
00

E

7900N 6250E

1300

1
4
0
0

1
4
0
0

15
00

Carpenter

   Lake

LEGEND

UTM Grid North

ms

Plate C−1

St. Elias Mines Ltd.

Interpreted Chargeability (ms)

Gold Summit Property

Lillooet, B.C.

Planmap

3D Inversion Model

Depth: 25m Below Topography

Project Information:
  Survey by: SJ Geophysics Ltd.
  3D Inversion by: S.J.V. Consultants Ltd.
  Survey Date: July 2011

Instrumentation:
  Receiver: SJ−24 Full−Waveform Digital IP Receiver
  Transmitter: GDD TX II
  Array Type: 3D

Mapping Information:
  Datum: NAD83
  Projection: UTM Zone 10
  Mapping Date: 26−Aug−2011

Mapping By : S.J.V. Consultants Ltd.  11966−95A Avenue, Delta, British Columbia, Canada V4C 3W2 (604) 582−1100   www.sjgeophysics.com

 3DIP Survey Stations

 3DIP Remote Station

 Magnetometer Stations

 Magnetic Baseline

 Roads

 Streams

 Elevation Contours (20m)

 Lakes

 Area of Low Model Confidence

0 200 400 600 800 1000

meters

> 35

30 − 35

25 − 30

20 − 25

15 − 20

12 − 15

9 − 12

6 − 9

4 − 6

3 − 4

2 − 3

< 2



5
6

3
7

0
0

0
N

5
6

3
6

5
0

0
N

5
6

3
6

0
0

0
N

5
6

3
5

5
0

0
N

5
6

3
5

0
0

0
N

532000E 532500E 533000E 533500E 534000E 534500E

5800N

5900N

6000N

6100N

6200N

6300N

6400N

6500N

6600N

6700N

Tx

Rc

Tx

Rc

Tx

50
00

E

52
00

E

54
00

E

56
00

E

58
00

E

60
00

E

62
00

E

64
00

E

66
00

E

68
00

E

70
00

E

50
00

E

52
00

E

54
00

E

56
00

E

58
00

E

60
00

E

62
00

E

64
00

E

66
00

E

68
00

E

70
00

E

7900N 6250E

1300

1
4
0
0

1
4
0
0

15
00

Carpenter

   Lake

LEGEND

UTM Grid North

ms

Plate C−2

St. Elias Mines Ltd.

Interpreted Chargeability (ms)

Gold Summit Property

Lillooet, B.C.

Planmap

3D Inversion Model

Depth: 50m Below Topography

Project Information:
  Survey by: SJ Geophysics Ltd.
  3D Inversion by: S.J.V. Consultants Ltd.
  Survey Date: July 2011

Instrumentation:
  Receiver: SJ−24 Full−Waveform Digital IP Receiver
  Transmitter: GDD TX II
  Array Type: 3D

Mapping Information:
  Datum: NAD83
  Projection: UTM Zone 10
  Mapping Date: 26−Aug−2011

Mapping By : S.J.V. Consultants Ltd.  11966−95A Avenue, Delta, British Columbia, Canada V4C 3W2 (604) 582−1100   www.sjgeophysics.com

 3DIP Survey Stations

 3DIP Remote Station

 Magnetometer Stations

 Magnetic Baseline

 Roads

 Streams

 Elevation Contours (20m)

 Lakes

 Area of Low Model Confidence

0 200 400 600 800 1000

meters

> 35

30 − 35

25 − 30

20 − 25

15 − 20

12 − 15

9 − 12

6 − 9

4 − 6

3 − 4

2 − 3

< 2



5
6

3
7

0
0

0
N

5
6

3
6

5
0

0
N

5
6

3
6

0
0

0
N

5
6

3
5

5
0

0
N

5
6

3
5

0
0

0
N

532000E 532500E 533000E 533500E 534000E 534500E

5800N

5900N

6000N

6100N

6200N

6300N

6400N

6500N

6600N

6700N

Tx

Rc

Tx

Rc

Tx

50
00

E

52
00

E

54
00

E

56
00

E

58
00

E

60
00

E

62
00

E

64
00

E

66
00

E

68
00

E

70
00

E

50
00

E

52
00

E

54
00

E

56
00

E

58
00

E

60
00

E

62
00

E

64
00

E

66
00

E

68
00

E

70
00

E

7900N 6250E

1300

1
4
0
0

1
4
0
0

15
00

Carpenter

   Lake

LEGEND

UTM Grid North

ms

Plate C−3

St. Elias Mines Ltd.

Interpreted Chargeability (ms)

Gold Summit Property

Lillooet, B.C.

Planmap

3D Inversion Model

Depth: 75m Below Topography

Project Information:
  Survey by: SJ Geophysics Ltd.
  3D Inversion by: S.J.V. Consultants Ltd.
  Survey Date: July 2011

Instrumentation:
  Receiver: SJ−24 Full−Waveform Digital IP Receiver
  Transmitter: GDD TX II
  Array Type: 3D

Mapping Information:
  Datum: NAD83
  Projection: UTM Zone 10
  Mapping Date: 26−Aug−2011

Mapping By : S.J.V. Consultants Ltd.  11966−95A Avenue, Delta, British Columbia, Canada V4C 3W2 (604) 582−1100   www.sjgeophysics.com

 3DIP Survey Stations

 3DIP Remote Station

 Magnetometer Stations

 Magnetic Baseline

 Roads

 Streams

 Elevation Contours (20m)

 Lakes

 Area of Low Model Confidence

0 200 400 600 800 1000

meters

> 35

30 − 35

25 − 30

20 − 25

15 − 20

12 − 15

9 − 12

6 − 9

4 − 6

3 − 4

2 − 3

< 2



5
6

3
7

0
0

0
N

5
6

3
6

5
0

0
N

5
6

3
6

0
0

0
N

5
6

3
5

5
0

0
N

5
6

3
5

0
0

0
N

532000E 532500E 533000E 533500E 534000E 534500E

5800N

5900N

6000N

6100N

6200N

6300N

6400N

6500N

6600N

6700N

Tx

Rc

Tx

Rc

Tx

50
00

E

52
00

E

54
00

E

56
00

E

58
00

E

60
00

E

62
00

E

64
00

E

66
00

E

68
00

E

70
00

E

50
00

E

52
00

E

54
00

E

56
00

E

58
00

E

60
00

E

62
00

E

64
00

E

66
00

E

68
00

E

70
00

E

7900N 6250E

1300

1
4
0
0

1
4
0
0

15
00

Carpenter

   Lake

LEGEND

UTM Grid North

ms

Plate C−4

St. Elias Mines Ltd.

Interpreted Chargeability (ms)

Gold Summit Property

Lillooet, B.C.

Planmap

3D Inversion Model

Depth: 100m Below Topography

Project Information:
  Survey by: SJ Geophysics Ltd.
  3D Inversion by: S.J.V. Consultants Ltd.
  Survey Date: July 2011

Instrumentation:
  Receiver: SJ−24 Full−Waveform Digital IP Receiver
  Transmitter: GDD TX II
  Array Type: 3D

Mapping Information:
  Datum: NAD83
  Projection: UTM Zone 10
  Mapping Date: 26−Aug−2011

Mapping By : S.J.V. Consultants Ltd.  11966−95A Avenue, Delta, British Columbia, Canada V4C 3W2 (604) 582−1100   www.sjgeophysics.com

 3DIP Survey Stations

 3DIP Remote Station

 Magnetometer Stations

 Magnetic Baseline

 Roads

 Streams

 Elevation Contours (20m)

 Lakes

 Area of Low Model Confidence

0 200 400 600 800 1000

meters

> 35

30 − 35

25 − 30

20 − 25

15 − 20

12 − 15

9 − 12

6 − 9

4 − 6

3 − 4

2 − 3

< 2



5
6

3
7

0
0

0
N

5
6

3
6

5
0

0
N

5
6

3
6

0
0

0
N

5
6

3
5

5
0

0
N

5
6

3
5

0
0

0
N

532000E 532500E 533000E 533500E 534000E 534500E

5800N

5900N

6000N

6100N

6200N

6300N

6400N

6500N

6600N

6700N

Tx

Rc

Tx

Rc

Tx

50
00

E

52
00

E

54
00

E

56
00

E

58
00

E

60
00

E

62
00

E

64
00

E

66
00

E

68
00

E

70
00

E

50
00

E

52
00

E

54
00

E

56
00

E

58
00

E

60
00

E

62
00

E

64
00

E

66
00

E

68
00

E

70
00

E

7900N 6250E

1300

1
4
0
0

1
4
0
0

15
00

Carpenter

   Lake

LEGEND

UTM Grid North

ms

Plate C−5

St. Elias Mines Ltd.

Interpreted Chargeability (ms)

Gold Summit Property

Lillooet, B.C.

Planmap

3D Inversion Model

Depth: 150m Below Topography

Project Information:
  Survey by: SJ Geophysics Ltd.
  3D Inversion by: S.J.V. Consultants Ltd.
  Survey Date: July 2011

Instrumentation:
  Receiver: SJ−24 Full−Waveform Digital IP Receiver
  Transmitter: GDD TX II
  Array Type: 3D

Mapping Information:
  Datum: NAD83
  Projection: UTM Zone 10
  Mapping Date: 26−Aug−2011

Mapping By : S.J.V. Consultants Ltd.  11966−95A Avenue, Delta, British Columbia, Canada V4C 3W2 (604) 582−1100   www.sjgeophysics.com

 3DIP Survey Stations

 3DIP Remote Station

 Magnetometer Stations

 Magnetic Baseline

 Roads

 Streams

 Elevation Contours (20m)

 Lakes

 Area of Low Model Confidence

0 200 400 600 800 1000

meters

> 35

30 − 35

25 − 30

20 − 25

15 − 20

12 − 15

9 − 12

6 − 9

4 − 6

3 − 4

2 − 3

< 2



5
6

3
7

0
0

0
N

5
6

3
6

5
0

0
N

5
6

3
6

0
0

0
N

5
6

3
5

5
0

0
N

5
6

3
5

0
0

0
N

532000E 532500E 533000E 533500E 534000E 534500E

5800N

5900N

6000N

6100N

6200N

6300N

6400N

6500N

6600N

6700N

Tx

Rc

Tx

Rc

Tx

50
00

E

52
00

E

54
00

E

56
00

E

58
00

E

60
00

E

62
00

E

64
00

E

66
00

E

68
00

E

70
00

E

50
00

E

52
00

E

54
00

E

56
00

E

58
00

E

60
00

E

62
00

E

64
00

E

66
00

E

68
00

E

70
00

E

7900N 6250E

1300

1
4
0
0

1
4
0
0

15
00

Carpenter

   Lake

LEGEND

UTM Grid North

ms

Plate C−6

St. Elias Mines Ltd.

Interpreted Chargeability (ms)

Gold Summit Property

Lillooet, B.C.

Planmap

3D Inversion Model

Depth: 200m Below Topography

Project Information:
  Survey by: SJ Geophysics Ltd.
  3D Inversion by: S.J.V. Consultants Ltd.
  Survey Date: July 2011

Instrumentation:
  Receiver: SJ−24 Full−Waveform Digital IP Receiver
  Transmitter: GDD TX II
  Array Type: 3D

Mapping Information:
  Datum: NAD83
  Projection: UTM Zone 10
  Mapping Date: 26−Aug−2011

Mapping By : S.J.V. Consultants Ltd.  11966−95A Avenue, Delta, British Columbia, Canada V4C 3W2 (604) 582−1100   www.sjgeophysics.com

 3DIP Survey Stations

 3DIP Remote Station

 Magnetometer Stations

 Magnetic Baseline

 Roads

 Streams

 Elevation Contours (20m)

 Lakes

 Area of Low Model Confidence

0 200 400 600 800 1000

meters

> 35

30 − 35

25 − 30

20 − 25

15 − 20

12 − 15

9 − 12

6 − 9

4 − 6

3 − 4

2 − 3

< 2



5
6

3
7

0
0

0
N

5
6

3
6

5
0

0
N

5
6

3
6

0
0

0
N

5
6

3
5

5
0

0
N

5
6

3
5

0
0

0
N

532000E 532500E 533000E 533500E 534000E 534500E

5800N

5900N

6000N

6100N

6200N

6300N

6400N

6500N

6600N

6700N

Tx

Rc

Tx

Rc

Tx

50
00

E

52
00

E

54
00

E

56
00

E

58
00

E

60
00

E

62
00

E

64
00

E

66
00

E

68
00

E

70
00

E

50
00

E

52
00

E

54
00

E

56
00

E

58
00

E

60
00

E

62
00

E

64
00

E

66
00

E

68
00

E

70
00

E

7900N 6250E

1300

1
4
0
0

1
4
0
0

15
00

Carpenter

   Lake

LEGEND

UTM Grid North

ms

Plate C−7

St. Elias Mines Ltd.

Interpreted Chargeability (ms)

Gold Summit Property

Lillooet, B.C.

Planmap

3D Inversion Model

Depth: 250m Below Topography

Project Information:
  Survey by: SJ Geophysics Ltd.
  3D Inversion by: S.J.V. Consultants Ltd.
  Survey Date: July 2011

Instrumentation:
  Receiver: SJ−24 Full−Waveform Digital IP Receiver
  Transmitter: GDD TX II
  Array Type: 3D

Mapping Information:
  Datum: NAD83
  Projection: UTM Zone 10
  Mapping Date: 26−Aug−2011

Mapping By : S.J.V. Consultants Ltd.  11966−95A Avenue, Delta, British Columbia, Canada V4C 3W2 (604) 582−1100   www.sjgeophysics.com

 3DIP Survey Stations

 3DIP Remote Station

 Magnetometer Stations

 Magnetic Baseline

 Roads

 Streams

 Elevation Contours (20m)

 Lakes

 Area of Low Model Confidence

0 200 400 600 800 1000

meters

> 35

30 − 35

25 − 30

20 − 25

15 − 20

12 − 15

9 − 12

6 − 9

4 − 6

3 − 4

2 − 3

< 2



5
6

3
7

0
0

0
N

5
6

3
6

5
0

0
N

5
6

3
6

0
0

0
N

5
6

3
5

5
0

0
N

5
6

3
5

0
0

0
N

532000E 532500E 533000E 533500E 534000E 534500E

5800N

5900N

6000N

6100N

6200N

6300N

6400N

6500N

6600N

6700N

Tx

Rc

Tx

Rc

Tx

50
00

E

52
00

E

54
00

E

56
00

E

58
00

E

60
00

E

62
00

E

64
00

E

66
00

E

68
00

E

70
00

E

50
00

E

52
00

E

54
00

E

56
00

E

58
00

E

60
00

E

62
00

E

64
00

E

66
00

E

68
00

E

70
00

E

7900N 6250E

1300

1
4
0
0

1
4
0
0

15
00

Carpenter

   Lake

LEGEND

UTM Grid North

ms

Plate C−8

St. Elias Mines Ltd.

Interpreted Chargeability (ms)

Gold Summit Property

Lillooet, B.C.

Planmap

3D Inversion Model

Depth: 300m Below Topography

Project Information:
  Survey by: SJ Geophysics Ltd.
  3D Inversion by: S.J.V. Consultants Ltd.
  Survey Date: July 2011

Instrumentation:
  Receiver: SJ−24 Full−Waveform Digital IP Receiver
  Transmitter: GDD TX II
  Array Type: 3D

Mapping Information:
  Datum: NAD83
  Projection: UTM Zone 10
  Mapping Date: 26−Aug−2011

Mapping By : S.J.V. Consultants Ltd.  11966−95A Avenue, Delta, British Columbia, Canada V4C 3W2 (604) 582−1100   www.sjgeophysics.com

 3DIP Survey Stations

 3DIP Remote Station

 Magnetometer Stations

 Magnetic Baseline

 Roads

 Streams

 Elevation Contours (20m)

 Lakes

 Area of Low Model Confidence

0 200 400 600 800 1000

meters

> 35

30 − 35

25 − 30

20 − 25

15 − 20

12 − 15

9 − 12

6 − 9

4 − 6

3 − 4

2 − 3

< 2



5
6

3
7

0
0

0
N

5
6

3
6

5
0

0
N

5
6

3
6

0
0

0
N

5
6

3
5

5
0

0
N

5
6

3
5

0
0

0
N

532000E 532500E 533000E 533500E 534000E 534500E

5800N

5900N

6000N

6100N

6200N

6300N

6400N

6500N

6600N

6700N

Tx

Rc

Tx

Rc

Tx

50
00

E

52
00

E

54
00

E

56
00

E

58
00

E

60
00

E

62
00

E

64
00

E

66
00

E

68
00

E

70
00

E

50
00

E

52
00

E

54
00

E

56
00

E

58
00

E

60
00

E

62
00

E

64
00

E

66
00

E

68
00

E

70
00

E

7900N 6250E

1300

1
4
0
0

1
4
0
0

15
00

Carpenter

   Lake

LEGEND

UTM Grid North

ohm−m

Plate R−1

St. Elias Mines Ltd.

Interpreted Resistivity (ohm−m)

Gold Summit Property

Lillooet, B.C.

Planmap

3D Inversion Model

Depth: 25m Below Topography

Project Information:
  Survey by: SJ Geophysics Ltd.
  3D Inversion by: S.J.V. Consultants Ltd.
  Survey Date: July 2011

Instrumentation:
  Receiver: SJ−24 Full−Waveform Digital IP Receiver
  Transmitter: GDD TX II
  Array Type: 3D

Mapping Information:
  Datum: NAD83
  Projection: UTM Zone 10
  Mapping Date: 26−Aug−2011

Mapping By : S.J.V. Consultants Ltd.  11966−95A Avenue, Delta, British Columbia, Canada V4C 3W2 (604) 582−1100   www.sjgeophysics.com

 3DIP Survey Stations

 3DIP Remote Station

 Magnetometer Stations

 Magnetic Baseline

 Roads

 Streams

 Elevation Contours (20m)

 Lakes

 Area of Low Model Confidence

0 200 400 600 800 1000

meters

> 5000

2500 − 5000

1500 − 2500

1000 − 1500

750 − 1000

500 − 750

350 − 500

250 − 350

150 − 250

100 − 150

50 − 100

< 50



5
6

3
7

0
0

0
N

5
6

3
6

5
0

0
N

5
6

3
6

0
0

0
N

5
6

3
5

5
0

0
N

5
6

3
5

0
0

0
N

532000E 532500E 533000E 533500E 534000E 534500E

5800N

5900N

6000N

6100N

6200N

6300N

6400N

6500N

6600N

6700N

Tx

Rc

Tx

Rc

Tx

50
00

E

52
00

E

54
00

E

56
00

E

58
00

E

60
00

E

62
00

E

64
00

E

66
00

E

68
00

E

70
00

E

50
00

E

52
00

E

54
00

E

56
00

E

58
00

E

60
00

E

62
00

E

64
00

E

66
00

E

68
00

E

70
00

E

7900N 6250E

1300

1
4
0
0

1
4
0
0

15
00

Carpenter

   Lake

LEGEND

UTM Grid North

ohm−m

Plate R−2

St. Elias Mines Ltd.

Interpreted Resistivity (ohm−m)

Gold Summit Property

Lillooet, B.C.

Planmap

3D Inversion Model

Depth: 50m Below Topography

Project Information:
  Survey by: SJ Geophysics Ltd.
  3D Inversion by: S.J.V. Consultants Ltd.
  Survey Date: July 2011

Instrumentation:
  Receiver: SJ−24 Full−Waveform Digital IP Receiver
  Transmitter: GDD TX II
  Array Type: 3D

Mapping Information:
  Datum: NAD83
  Projection: UTM Zone 10
  Mapping Date: 26−Aug−2011

Mapping By : S.J.V. Consultants Ltd.  11966−95A Avenue, Delta, British Columbia, Canada V4C 3W2 (604) 582−1100   www.sjgeophysics.com

 3DIP Survey Stations

 3DIP Remote Station

 Magnetometer Stations

 Magnetic Baseline

 Roads

 Streams

 Elevation Contours (20m)

 Lakes

 Area of Low Model Confidence

0 200 400 600 800 1000

meters

> 5000

2500 − 5000

1500 − 2500

1000 − 1500

750 − 1000

500 − 750

350 − 500

250 − 350

150 − 250

100 − 150

50 − 100

< 50



5
6

3
7

0
0

0
N

5
6

3
6

5
0

0
N

5
6

3
6

0
0

0
N

5
6

3
5

5
0

0
N

5
6

3
5

0
0

0
N

532000E 532500E 533000E 533500E 534000E 534500E

5800N

5900N

6000N

6100N

6200N

6300N

6400N

6500N

6600N

6700N

Tx

Rc

Tx

Rc

Tx

50
00

E

52
00

E

54
00

E

56
00

E

58
00

E

60
00

E

62
00

E

64
00

E

66
00

E

68
00

E

70
00

E

50
00

E

52
00

E

54
00

E

56
00

E

58
00

E

60
00

E

62
00

E

64
00

E

66
00

E

68
00

E

70
00

E

7900N 6250E

1300

1
4
0
0

1
4
0
0

15
00

Carpenter

   Lake

LEGEND

UTM Grid North

ohm−m

Plate R−3

St. Elias Mines Ltd.

Interpreted Resistivity (ohm−m)

Gold Summit Property

Lillooet, B.C.

Planmap

3D Inversion Model

Depth: 75m Below Topography

Project Information:
  Survey by: SJ Geophysics Ltd.
  3D Inversion by: S.J.V. Consultants Ltd.
  Survey Date: July 2011

Instrumentation:
  Receiver: SJ−24 Full−Waveform Digital IP Receiver
  Transmitter: GDD TX II
  Array Type: 3D

Mapping Information:
  Datum: NAD83
  Projection: UTM Zone 10
  Mapping Date: 26−Aug−2011

Mapping By : S.J.V. Consultants Ltd.  11966−95A Avenue, Delta, British Columbia, Canada V4C 3W2 (604) 582−1100   www.sjgeophysics.com

 3DIP Survey Stations

 3DIP Remote Station

 Magnetometer Stations

 Magnetic Baseline

 Roads

 Streams

 Elevation Contours (20m)

 Lakes

 Area of Low Model Confidence

0 200 400 600 800 1000

meters

> 5000

2500 − 5000

1500 − 2500

1000 − 1500

750 − 1000

500 − 750

350 − 500

250 − 350

150 − 250

100 − 150

50 − 100

< 50



5
6

3
7

0
0

0
N

5
6

3
6

5
0

0
N

5
6

3
6

0
0

0
N

5
6

3
5

5
0

0
N

5
6

3
5

0
0

0
N

532000E 532500E 533000E 533500E 534000E 534500E

5800N

5900N

6000N

6100N

6200N

6300N

6400N

6500N

6600N

6700N

Tx

Rc

Tx

Rc

Tx

50
00

E

52
00

E

54
00

E

56
00

E

58
00

E

60
00

E

62
00

E

64
00

E

66
00

E

68
00

E

70
00

E

50
00

E

52
00

E

54
00

E

56
00

E

58
00

E

60
00

E

62
00

E

64
00

E

66
00

E

68
00

E

70
00

E

7900N 6250E

1300

1
4
0
0

1
4
0
0

15
00

Carpenter

   Lake

LEGEND

UTM Grid North

ohm−m

Plate R−4

St. Elias Mines Ltd.

Interpreted Resistivity (ohm−m)

Gold Summit Property

Lillooet, B.C.

Planmap

3D Inversion Model

Depth: 100m Below Topography

Project Information:
  Survey by: SJ Geophysics Ltd.
  3D Inversion by: S.J.V. Consultants Ltd.
  Survey Date: July 2011

Instrumentation:
  Receiver: SJ−24 Full−Waveform Digital IP Receiver
  Transmitter: GDD TX II
  Array Type: 3D

Mapping Information:
  Datum: NAD83
  Projection: UTM Zone 10
  Mapping Date: 26−Aug−2011

Mapping By : S.J.V. Consultants Ltd.  11966−95A Avenue, Delta, British Columbia, Canada V4C 3W2 (604) 582−1100   www.sjgeophysics.com

 3DIP Survey Stations

 3DIP Remote Station

 Magnetometer Stations

 Magnetic Baseline

 Roads

 Streams

 Elevation Contours (20m)

 Lakes

 Area of Low Model Confidence

0 200 400 600 800 1000

meters

> 5000

2500 − 5000

1500 − 2500

1000 − 1500

750 − 1000

500 − 750

350 − 500

250 − 350

150 − 250

100 − 150

50 − 100

< 50



5
6

3
7

0
0

0
N

5
6

3
6

5
0

0
N

5
6

3
6

0
0

0
N

5
6

3
5

5
0

0
N

5
6

3
5

0
0

0
N

532000E 532500E 533000E 533500E 534000E 534500E

5800N

5900N

6000N

6100N

6200N

6300N

6400N

6500N

6600N

6700N

Tx

Rc

Tx

Rc

Tx

50
00

E

52
00

E

54
00

E

56
00

E

58
00

E

60
00

E

62
00

E

64
00

E

66
00

E

68
00

E

70
00

E

50
00

E

52
00

E

54
00

E

56
00

E

58
00

E

60
00

E

62
00

E

64
00

E

66
00

E

68
00

E

70
00

E

7900N 6250E

1300

1
4
0
0

1
4
0
0

15
00

Carpenter

   Lake

LEGEND

UTM Grid North

ohm−m

Plate R−5

St. Elias Mines Ltd.

Interpreted Resistivity (ohm−m)

Gold Summit Property

Lillooet, B.C.

Planmap

3D Inversion Model

Depth: 150m Below Topography

Project Information:
  Survey by: SJ Geophysics Ltd.
  3D Inversion by: S.J.V. Consultants Ltd.
  Survey Date: July 2011

Instrumentation:
  Receiver: SJ−24 Full−Waveform Digital IP Receiver
  Transmitter: GDD TX II
  Array Type: 3D

Mapping Information:
  Datum: NAD83
  Projection: UTM Zone 10
  Mapping Date: 26−Aug−2011

Mapping By : S.J.V. Consultants Ltd.  11966−95A Avenue, Delta, British Columbia, Canada V4C 3W2 (604) 582−1100   www.sjgeophysics.com

 3DIP Survey Stations

 3DIP Remote Station

 Magnetometer Stations

 Magnetic Baseline

 Roads

 Streams

 Elevation Contours (20m)

 Lakes

 Area of Low Model Confidence

0 200 400 600 800 1000

meters

> 5000

2500 − 5000

1500 − 2500

1000 − 1500

750 − 1000

500 − 750

350 − 500

250 − 350

150 − 250

100 − 150

50 − 100

< 50



5
6

3
7

0
0

0
N

5
6

3
6

5
0

0
N

5
6

3
6

0
0

0
N

5
6

3
5

5
0

0
N

5
6

3
5

0
0

0
N

532000E 532500E 533000E 533500E 534000E 534500E

5800N

5900N

6000N

6100N

6200N

6300N

6400N

6500N

6600N

6700N

Tx

Rc

Tx

Rc

Tx

50
00

E

52
00

E

54
00

E

56
00

E

58
00

E

60
00

E

62
00

E

64
00

E

66
00

E

68
00

E

70
00

E

50
00

E

52
00

E

54
00

E

56
00

E

58
00

E

60
00

E

62
00

E

64
00

E

66
00

E

68
00

E

70
00

E

7900N 6250E

1300

1
4
0
0

1
4
0
0

15
00

Carpenter

   Lake

LEGEND

UTM Grid North

ohm−m

Plate R−6

St. Elias Mines Ltd.

Interpreted Resistivity (ohm−m)

Gold Summit Property

Lillooet, B.C.

Planmap

3D Inversion Model

Depth: 200m Below Topography

Project Information:
  Survey by: SJ Geophysics Ltd.
  3D Inversion by: S.J.V. Consultants Ltd.
  Survey Date: July 2011

Instrumentation:
  Receiver: SJ−24 Full−Waveform Digital IP Receiver
  Transmitter: GDD TX II
  Array Type: 3D

Mapping Information:
  Datum: NAD83
  Projection: UTM Zone 10
  Mapping Date: 26−Aug−2011

Mapping By : S.J.V. Consultants Ltd.  11966−95A Avenue, Delta, British Columbia, Canada V4C 3W2 (604) 582−1100   www.sjgeophysics.com

 3DIP Survey Stations

 3DIP Remote Station

 Magnetometer Stations

 Magnetic Baseline

 Roads

 Streams

 Elevation Contours (20m)

 Lakes

 Area of Low Model Confidence

0 200 400 600 800 1000

meters

> 5000

2500 − 5000

1500 − 2500

1000 − 1500

750 − 1000

500 − 750

350 − 500

250 − 350

150 − 250

100 − 150

50 − 100

< 50



5
6

3
7

0
0

0
N

5
6

3
6

5
0

0
N

5
6

3
6

0
0

0
N

5
6

3
5

5
0

0
N

5
6

3
5

0
0

0
N

532000E 532500E 533000E 533500E 534000E 534500E

5800N

5900N

6000N

6100N

6200N

6300N

6400N

6500N

6600N

6700N

Tx

Rc

Tx

Rc

Tx

50
00

E

52
00

E

54
00

E

56
00

E

58
00

E

60
00

E

62
00

E

64
00

E

66
00

E

68
00

E

70
00

E

50
00

E

52
00

E

54
00

E

56
00

E

58
00

E

60
00

E

62
00

E

64
00

E

66
00

E

68
00

E

70
00

E

7900N 6250E

1300

1
4
0
0

1
4
0
0

15
00

Carpenter

   Lake

LEGEND

UTM Grid North

ohm−m

Plate R−7

St. Elias Mines Ltd.

Interpreted Resistivity (ohm−m)

Gold Summit Property

Lillooet, B.C.

Planmap

3D Inversion Model

Depth: 250m Below Topography

Project Information:
  Survey by: SJ Geophysics Ltd.
  3D Inversion by: S.J.V. Consultants Ltd.
  Survey Date: July 2011

Instrumentation:
  Receiver: SJ−24 Full−Waveform Digital IP Receiver
  Transmitter: GDD TX II
  Array Type: 3D

Mapping Information:
  Datum: NAD83
  Projection: UTM Zone 10
  Mapping Date: 26−Aug−2011

Mapping By : S.J.V. Consultants Ltd.  11966−95A Avenue, Delta, British Columbia, Canada V4C 3W2 (604) 582−1100   www.sjgeophysics.com

 3DIP Survey Stations

 3DIP Remote Station

 Magnetometer Stations

 Magnetic Baseline

 Roads

 Streams

 Elevation Contours (20m)

 Lakes

 Area of Low Model Confidence

0 200 400 600 800 1000

meters

> 5000

2500 − 5000

1500 − 2500

1000 − 1500

750 − 1000

500 − 750

350 − 500

250 − 350

150 − 250

100 − 150

50 − 100

< 50



5
6

3
7

0
0

0
N

5
6

3
6

5
0

0
N

5
6

3
6

0
0

0
N

5
6

3
5

5
0

0
N

5
6

3
5

0
0

0
N

532000E 532500E 533000E 533500E 534000E 534500E

5800N

5900N

6000N

6100N

6200N

6300N

6400N

6500N

6600N

6700N

Tx

Rc

Tx

Rc

Tx

50
00

E

52
00

E

54
00

E

56
00

E

58
00

E

60
00

E

62
00

E

64
00

E

66
00

E

68
00

E

70
00

E

50
00

E

52
00

E

54
00

E

56
00

E

58
00

E

60
00

E

62
00

E

64
00

E

66
00

E

68
00

E

70
00

E

7900N 6250E

1300

1
4
0
0

1
4
0
0

15
00

Carpenter

   Lake

LEGEND

UTM Grid North

ohm−m

Plate R−8

St. Elias Mines Ltd.

Interpreted Resistivity (ohm−m)

Gold Summit Property

Lillooet, B.C.

Planmap

3D Inversion Model

Depth: 300m Below Topography

Project Information:
  Survey by: SJ Geophysics Ltd.
  3D Inversion by: S.J.V. Consultants Ltd.
  Survey Date: July 2011

Instrumentation:
  Receiver: SJ−24 Full−Waveform Digital IP Receiver
  Transmitter: GDD TX II
  Array Type: 3D

Mapping Information:
  Datum: NAD83
  Projection: UTM Zone 10
  Mapping Date: 26−Aug−2011

Mapping By : S.J.V. Consultants Ltd.  11966−95A Avenue, Delta, British Columbia, Canada V4C 3W2 (604) 582−1100   www.sjgeophysics.com

 3DIP Survey Stations

 3DIP Remote Station

 Magnetometer Stations

 Magnetic Baseline

 Roads

 Streams

 Elevation Contours (20m)

 Lakes

 Area of Low Model Confidence

0 200 400 600 800 1000

meters

> 5000

2500 − 5000

1500 − 2500

1000 − 1500

750 − 1000

500 − 750

350 − 500

250 − 350

150 − 250

100 − 150

50 − 100

< 50



Gold Summit Project, September 2011 

Havilah Mines Ltd. 

52 
M Moore  P. Geo 

Appendix B  Author Site Examination Sample Analyses Certificates & Descriptions  
 



Gold Summit Property

M Moore Site samples July 09, 2011

Sample East NAD 83 North NAD 83 Elev.  ft Sample Description Au ppm

MMR11-01 533248 5635804 4691 outcrop trench: 0.35m true width chip sample. Narrow FeOx quartz vein (270.50NW) in host argillite. 3.08

MMR11-02 533248 5635804 4691 footwall extension of sample MMR-11-01: 1.10 m chip, grey black cherty sediment with a few 2-3 cm wide FeOx-Qtz veins (duplicate of GS-
01)

0.056

MMR11-03 532993 5635842 4479 outcrop roadcut: 0.52m chip ssample: black-grey agrilite with a 0.25 to 1.0 metre wide shear (070/70-85SE); with weak to locally moderate 
silica and FeOx. 

0.006

MMR11-04 532244 5635711 3306 outcrop?; grab sample duplicating sample SGR-01. Possible downslope soil-rock debris? 0.195
MMR11-05 532244 5635711 3306 outcrop road cut, a few metres west of MMR-11-04: series of chip samples 04 to 07; from west to east. Argillite host with shear zone 108/75-

85N. 1.35 m chip sample: weak & irregular poddy qtz-carb veins (particularly sample 07).
0.058

MMR11-06 532244 5635711 3306 1.00m chip: continuation of 05: no apparent mineralization; argillite 0.012

MMR11-07 532244 5635711 3306 1.25m chip: weak & irregular poddy qtz-carb veins; 2 crosscutting qtz-carb veinlets (<0.5cm wide). Cherty argillte. 0.016



1020 Cordova St. East  Vancouver BC V6A 4A3 Canada

Client:

Submitted By:

Receiving Lab:

Received:

Report Date:

Page:

440 - 520 Granville Street

Vancouver BC V7Y 1K8 Canada

Michael Moore

Canada-Vancouver

July 11, 2011

Method

Code

Code Description Report 

Status

 SAMPLE PREPARATION AND ANALYTICAL PROCEDURES

Test

Wgt (g)

Number of

Samples

Lab

R200-500 Crush, split and pulverize 500 g rock to 200 mesh7 VAN

G601 Lead Collection Fire - Assay Fusion - AAS Finish Completed307 VAN

1F01 1:1:1 Aqua Regia digestion Ultratrace ICP-MS analysis Completed0.57 VAN

 ADDITIONAL COMMENTS

CC:

Invoice To:

This report supersedes all previous preliminary and final reports with this file number dated prior to the date on this certificate. Signature indicates final approval; preliminary reports are unsigned and should be used for reference only.
All results are considered the confidential property of the client. Acme assumes the liabilities for actual cost of analysis only. Results apply to samples as submitted.
"*" asterisk indicates that an analytical result could not be provided due to unusually high levels of interference from other elements.

Acme does not accept responsibility for samples left at the laboratory after 90 

days without prior written instructions for sample storage or return.

Dispose of Reject After 90 days

Dispose of Pulp After 90 days

DISP-RJT

DISP-PLP

7

Gold Summit

Number of Samples:

P.O. Number

Shipment ID:

Project:

 SAMPLE DISPOSAL

 CERTIFICATE OF ANALYSIS                               VAN11003077.1

 CLIENT JOB INFORMATION

Moore, Michael

440 - 520 Granville Street

Vancouver BC V7Y 1K8

Canada

1 of 2

August 15, 2011www.acmelab.com

Moore, Michael

Acme Analytical Laboratories (Vancouver) Ltd.



2 of 2

Gold Summit

440 - 520 Granville Street

Vancouver BC V7Y 1K8 Canada

Project:

Page:

Report Date:

Phone (604) 253-3158  Fax (604) 253-1716

1020 Cordova St. East  Vancouver BC V6A 4A3 Canada

1Part

August 15, 2011

www.acmelab.com

Client: Moore, Michael

Acme Analytical Laboratories (Vancouver) Ltd.

 CERTIFICATE OF ANALYSIS                     VAN11003077.1  CERTIFICATE OF ANALYSIS                     VAN11003077.1

MDL

Unit

Analyte

Method WGHT G6 1F 1F 1F 1F 1F 1F 1F 1F 1F 1F 1F 1F 1F 1F 1F 1F 1F 1F

Wgt Au Mo Cu Pb Zn Ag Ni Co Mn Fe As U Au Th Sr Cd Sb Bi V

kg ppm ppm ppm ppm ppm ppb ppm ppm ppm % ppm ppm ppb ppm ppm ppm ppm ppm ppm

0.01 0.005 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.1 2 0.1 0.1 1 0.01 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.5 0.01 0.02 0.02 2

MMR-11-01 Rock 1.08 3.080 0.84 112.7 93.24 4487 11036 1.6 2.2 632 3.84 4783 <0.1 948.1 0.1 314.7 46.42 4.42 31.04 <2

MMR-11-02 Rock 0.95 0.056 0.38 69.62 4.38 638.1 567 6.8 2.6 916 0.77 142.2 0.2 10.8 0.9 330.8 7.07 0.19 0.73 5

MMR-11-03 Rock 0.88 0.006 2.73 40.65 9.73 98.8 63 18.2 6.6 365 6.01 4.7 0.2 <0.2 2.0 27.8 0.11 1.56 0.08 61

MMR-11-04 Rock 0.86 0.195 0.71 43.22 14.49 95.6 15488 58.1 22.4 5214 3.91 1414 <0.1 134.5 0.9 68.9 0.25 6.62 0.08 36

MMR-11-05 Rock 1.18 0.058 1.21 61.29 8.98 78.2 1657 20.0 7.1 1410 1.85 224.5 0.1 32.2 1.3 10.0 0.23 1.99 0.26 8

MMR-11-06 Rock 0.99 0.012 0.94 54.19 6.15 61.5 616 25.4 8.9 664 2.21 40.1 <0.1 3.9 1.2 14.8 0.07 0.75 0.21 11

MMR-11-07 Rock 1.58 0.016 1.44 52.18 3.98 40.3 208 16.5 4.2 390 1.38 24.5 <0.1 9.1 0.8 36.9 0.21 0.69 0.13 7

This report supersedes all previous preliminary and final reports with this file number dated prior to the date on this certificate. Signature indicates final approval; preliminary reports are unsigned and should be used for reference only. This report supersedes all previous preliminary and final reports with this file number dated prior to the date on this certificate. Signature indicates final approval; preliminary reports are unsigned and should be used for reference only.



2 of 2

Gold Summit

440 - 520 Granville Street

Vancouver BC V7Y 1K8 Canada

Project:

Page:

Report Date:

Phone (604) 253-3158  Fax (604) 253-1716

1020 Cordova St. East  Vancouver BC V6A 4A3 Canada

2Part

August 15, 2011

www.acmelab.com

Client: Moore, Michael

Acme Analytical Laboratories (Vancouver) Ltd.

 CERTIFICATE OF ANALYSIS                     VAN11003077.1

MDL

Unit

Analyte

Method 1F 1F 1F 1F 1F 1F 1F 1F 1F 1F 1F 1F 1F 1F 1F 1F 1F 1F 1F

Ca P La Cr Mg Ba Ti B Al Na K W Sc Tl S Hg Se Te Ga

% % ppm ppm % ppm % ppm % % % ppm ppm ppm % ppb ppm ppm ppm

0.01 0.001 0.5 0.5 0.01 0.5 0.001 20 0.01 0.001 0.01 0.1 0.1 0.02 0.02 5 0.1 0.02 0.1

MMR-11-01 Rock 19.71 0.082 2.7 2.2 0.10 239.3 <0.001 <20 0.04 0.004 0.03 0.6 1.3 0.18 0.84 1002 3.3 0.93 0.5

MMR-11-02 Rock 14.35 0.030 8.5 3.9 0.31 461.4 <0.001 <20 0.17 0.003 0.05 <0.1 2.7 <0.02 0.02 22 0.4 <0.02 0.6

MMR-11-03 Rock 1.16 0.528 53.3 52.6 0.64 134.7 0.017 <20 1.60 0.016 0.31 <0.1 4.6 0.15 0.61 22 0.8 0.06 5.6

MMR-11-04 Rock 1.88 0.071 7.2 26.4 0.49 150.2 <0.001 <20 0.33 0.004 0.18 <0.1 7.3 0.10 0.07 235 0.3 0.06 1.1

MMR-11-05 Rock 0.18 0.023 6.9 5.0 0.07 81.0 <0.001 <20 0.31 0.003 0.17 <0.1 2.5 0.11 0.02 68 0.7 0.13 1.0

MMR-11-06 Rock 0.77 0.029 9.2 6.1 0.08 81.0 <0.001 <20 0.30 0.005 0.15 <0.1 2.8 0.08 0.02 34 0.1 0.09 1.0

MMR-11-07 Rock 1.97 0.015 8.6 4.3 0.14 83.2 <0.001 <20 0.22 0.003 0.11 <0.1 1.7 0.07 <0.02 30 0.1 0.05 0.7

This report supersedes all previous preliminary and final reports with this file number dated prior to the date on this certificate. Signature indicates final approval; preliminary reports are unsigned and should be used for reference only.



1 of 1

Gold Summit

440 - 520 Granville Street

Vancouver BC V7Y 1K8 Canada

Moore, MichaelClient:

Project:

Report Date:

www.acmelab.com

Phone (604) 253-3158  Fax (604) 253-1716

1020 Cordova St. East  Vancouver BC V6A 4A3 Canada

1PartPage:

August 15, 2011

Acme Analytical Laboratories (Vancouver) Ltd.

 QUALITY CONTROL REPORT                    VAN11003077.1  QUALITY CONTROL REPORT                    VAN11003077.1
WGHT G6 1F 1F 1F 1F 1F 1F 1F 1F 1F 1F 1F 1F 1F 1F 1F 1F 1F 1F

Wgt Au Mo Cu Pb Zn Ag Ni Co Mn Fe As U Au Th Sr Cd Sb Bi V

kg ppm ppm ppm ppm ppm ppb ppm ppm ppm % ppm ppm ppb ppm ppm ppm ppm ppm ppm

0.01 0.005 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.1 2 0.1 0.1 1 0.01 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.5 0.01 0.02 0.02 2

Pulp Duplicates

MMR-11-04 Rock 0.86 0.195 0.71 43.22 14.49 95.6 15488 58.1 22.4 5214 3.91 1414 <0.1 134.5 0.9 68.9 0.25 6.62 0.08 36

REP MMR-11-04 QC 0.189 0.71 42.97 14.70 96.9 15190 57.6 22.9 5277 3.87 1405 <0.1 135.8 0.9 68.3 0.26 5.88 0.07 37

Reference Materials

STD DS8 Standard 12.85 105.6 118.6 297.2 1660 36.0 7.0 565 2.34 21.9 2.3 93.5 5.8 59.4 2.01 2.06 5.65 39

STD OREAS45CA Standard 0.54 496.0 21.53 60.8 264 239.3 87.5 914 15.00 4.0 1.2 44.8 7.2 14.8 0.09 0.03 0.17 196

STD OXH82 Standard 1.338

STD OXK79 Standard 3.629

STD OXH82 Expected 1.278

STD OXK79 Expected 3.532

STD DS8 Expected 13.44 110 123 312 1690 38.1 7.5 615 2.46 26 2.8 107 6.89 67.7 2.38 4.8 6.67 41.1

STD OREAS45CA Expected 1 494 20 60 275 240 92 943 15.69 3.8 1.2 43 7 15 0.1 0.13 0.19 215

BLK Blank <0.005

BLK Blank <0.005

BLK Blank <0.01 <0.01 <0.01 <0.1 <2 <0.1 <0.1 <1 <0.01 <0.1 <0.1 <0.2 <0.1 <0.5 <0.01 <0.02 <0.02 <2

Prep Wash

G1 Prep Blank <0.01 <0.005 0.09 1.70 2.85 45.5 9 3.2 4.1 552 1.91 0.2 1.6 1.3 5.1 56.0 <0.01 <0.02 0.03 35

MDL

Unit

Analyte

Method

This report supersedes all previous preliminary and final reports with this file number dated prior to the date on this certificate. Signature indicates final approval; preliminary reports are unsigned and should be used for reference only.



1 of 1

Gold Summit

440 - 520 Granville Street

Vancouver BC V7Y 1K8 Canada

Moore, MichaelClient:

Project:

Report Date:

www.acmelab.com

Phone (604) 253-3158  Fax (604) 253-1716

1020 Cordova St. East  Vancouver BC V6A 4A3 Canada

2PartPage:

August 15, 2011

Acme Analytical Laboratories (Vancouver) Ltd.

 QUALITY CONTROL REPORT                    VAN11003077.1
1F 1F 1F 1F 1F 1F 1F 1F 1F 1F 1F 1F 1F 1F 1F 1F 1F 1F 1F

Ca P La Cr Mg Ba Ti B Al Na K W Sc Tl S Hg Se Te Ga

% % ppm ppm % ppm % ppm % % % ppm ppm ppm % ppb ppm ppm ppm

0.01 0.001 0.5 0.5 0.01 0.5 0.001 20 0.01 0.001 0.01 0.1 0.1 0.02 0.02 5 0.1 0.02 0.1

Pulp Duplicates

MMR-11-04 Rock 1.88 0.071 7.2 26.4 0.49 150.2 <0.001 <20 0.33 0.004 0.18 <0.1 7.3 0.10 0.07 235 0.3 0.06 1.1

REP MMR-11-04 QC 1.93 0.069 7.2 26.8 0.49 148.6 <0.001 <20 0.34 0.004 0.18 <0.1 7.2 0.10 0.07 227 0.2 0.02 1.2

Reference Materials

STD DS8 Standard 0.67 0.069 12.6 108.6 0.62 243.5 0.085 <20 0.95 0.099 0.41 1.6 1.8 4.95 0.16 176 4.7 4.27 4.1

STD OREAS45CA Standard 0.43 0.039 17.0 646.9 0.14 158.7 0.072 <20 3.52 0.013 0.07 <0.1 36.6 0.08 0.02 36 0.4 0.03 18.5

STD OXH82 Standard

STD OXK79 Standard

STD OXH82 Expected

STD OXK79 Expected

STD DS8 Expected 0.7 0.08 14.6 115 0.6045 279 0.113 2.6 0.93 0.0883 0.41 3 2.3 5.4 0.1679 192 5.23 5 4.7

STD OREAS45CA Expected 0.4265 0.0385 15.9 709 0.1358 164 0.128 3.592 0.0075 0.0717 39.7 0.07 0.021 30 0.5 0.06 18.4

BLK Blank

BLK Blank

BLK Blank <0.01 <0.001 <0.5 <0.5 <0.01 <0.5 <0.001 <20 <0.01 <0.001 <0.01 <0.1 <0.1 <0.02 <0.02 <5 <0.1 <0.02 <0.1

Prep Wash

G1 Prep Blank 0.49 0.077 10.0 5.6 0.55 187.9 0.104 <20 1.11 0.138 0.51 <0.1 1.8 0.31 <0.02 <5 <0.1 0.03 4.7

MDL

Unit

Analyte

Method

This report supersedes all previous preliminary and final reports with this file number dated prior to the date on this certificate. Signature indicates final approval; preliminary reports are unsigned and should be used for reference only.


	Appendix A Geophysical.pdf
	Soil Anomalies plus 1mag 1 MaxMin
	1: Mag
	2: MaxMin

	3DSections
	goldSummit_geophysMaps
	goldSummit_magMaps
	Planmap_CHG
	Planmap_RES




'