b'














































Title


 

Geology of the Golden Reward Project 
Okanogan County, Washington USA 

For 

Diamonds North/Uranium North 

NI 43-101 Technical Report 
 

By 

James F. Ebisch  

SME Registered Member No. 4066489 

 

Effective Date Dec 17, 2012 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 





 3 

 



Table of Contents 

 

           Page 

Item 1.   Summary         4 

Item 2.   Introduction        7 

Item 3.   Reliance on Other Experts      8 

Item 4.   Property Description and Location     8 

Item 5.   Accessibility, Climate, Local Resources, 

              Infrastructure, and Physiography     10 

Item 6.   History         11 

Item 7.   Geological Setting and Mineralization    12 

Item 8.   Deposit Types        17 

Item 9.   Exploration        19 

Item 10. Drilling         24 

Item 11. Sample Preparation, Analyses, and Security   29 

Item 12. Data Verification       31 

Item 13. Mineral Processing and Metallurgical Testing   31 

Item 14. Mineral Resource Estimates      32 

Items 15-22. Omitted 

Item 23. Adjacent Properties       32 

Item 24. Other Relevant Data and Information    33 

Item 25. Interpretations and Conclusions     33 

Item 26. Recommendations       34 

Item 27. References        36 

 

Illustrations 

Figure 1.  Location Map 

Figure 2.  Property Map 

Figure 3.  Regional/Local Geology 

Figure 4.  Past Producers 

Figure 5.  Property Geology 

Figure 6.  Epithermal Hot Springs Model 

Figure 7.  Rock Geochemistry 

Figure 8.  Soil Geochemistry 

Figure 9.  Ground Magnetic Survey 

Figure 10. Drill Hole GR-1/GR-2 X-Section 

Figure 11. Drill Hole GR-3/GR-4 X-Section 

Figure 12. Drill Hole GR-5/GR-6 X-Section 

 

            



 5 

Item 1.   Summary 

 

The Golden Reward Property lies within the eastern part of the Tertiary Age 

Toroda Graben in northeastern Washington State, USA (Figure 1). The 

property consists of 1376 acres (557 hectares) of private land that are owned 

by Joel and Sara Kretz of Wauconda, Washington. Most of the mineral 

rights are owned by two entities. Joel and Sara Kretz (husband and wife)  

 
own 50% of the mineral rights. The other undivided 50% of the mineral 

rights are owned by Charles Eder Jr. and Sally Eder (husband and wife). 

However, on one small piece (16.7 acres) of the leased land (Grethe Lode), 

the mineral rights are owned 100% by the Kretz Family (Figure 2) 

 

On the west edge of the Kretz property in section 3, roughly 140 acres of 

Kretz land has severed mineral rights that are owned by the federal 

government. Kretz has acquired these mineral rights by staking of the Roan 

Horse 1-9 claims (Figure 2). Those claims are currently not under lease to 

Minerals North. The addition of those claims to the lease package has been 

agreed to in principle, but that acquisition has not yet been finalized, and 

there is no assurance that those 9 claims will become part of the property. 



 6 

 

 

 

 
Bedrock exposed on the property consists of Tertiary Age volcanic flows 

and dikes that are part of the Klondike Mountain Formation. Those Tertiary 

Age volcanic rocks are cut by a gold-bearing, northerly-trending epithermal 

vein/breccia system that is the primary target of the exploration program. 

Historic work on the property consisted of the excavation of several prospect 

pits and one adit that is approximately two hundred feet in length. More 

recent work on the property was undertaken from 1989-1990 by US Borax 

and Chemical Corporation. The author was in charge of that recent 

exploration program and is familiar with all the results of said exploration 

program. This work consisted of geological mapping and geochemical 

sampling that defined an epithermal vein system which was traced for over 

6,000 feet (1829 meters), locally obtaining a width of 20-30 feet (6-9 

meters). The successful delineation of this gold-bearing epithermal system 

culminated in a drilling program designed to test the vein system at depth 

along the zone of mineralization.  

 



 7 

The vein system appears to be that of an anastamosing epithermal fissure 

vein/breccia system. Upper levels of the vein system consist primarily of 

microcrystalline silica. However, no surface sinter was found on the 

property, indicating that either a paloesurface sinter never formed, it is not 

exposed, or that it has been eroded. Coarser crystalline, often sucrosic silica, 

with carbonate replacement textures is found at lower elevation of the vein 

system near the valley bottom. The textural variation with elevation is 

characteristic of epithermal vein systems. Similarly, the highest grade grab 

samples taken from the vein system by US Borax geologists, a maximum of 

0.75 opt (23.3 g/t) gold, came from the lowest elevation exposures of the 

vein system. Minerals North geologists sampled the lowest elevation 

outcrops of vein system on both sides of Bodie Creek with similar results. 

On the south side of Bodie Creek, the maximum gold grade in Minerals 

North grab samples was 9.77 g/t (0.31 opt) gold. On the north side of Bodie 

Creek at the lowest elevation showing, the maximum gold grade in Minerals 

North grab samples was 13.95 g/t (0.45 opt) gold. 

 

US Borax drilled six shallow core holes in 1989 and one deep core hole in 

1990. The six shallow drill holes intercepted gold mineralization of up to 66 

feet (20 meters) averaging 0.027 opt (0.93 grams/tonne) gold. The seventh 

hole, a deep hole intended to test the vein system at greater depth, did not 

reach the projected target. Drilling of the seven holes totaled 3602 feet (1098 

meters). All previous assays of core and surface samples were done in 1989 

by the US Borax in-house lab in Anaheim, California under the capable 

supervision of Bob Deal, chief geochemist. It should be cautioned that this 

lab may not have been accredited under NI 43-101 standards. This work was 

done prior to the implementation of NI 43-101. However, surface sampling 

by Minerals North geologists in 2012 returned similar gold values to those 

obtained by the US Borax in-house lab some two decades earlier. 

 

The author concludes that the drill-test of the vein system that was done over 

two decades ago tested only near-surface mineralization in the upper parts of 

the epithermal system. The results from those shallow holes were consistent 

with the epithermal system model, yielding relatively low gold values from 

microcrystalline silica  mineralization that would tend to occupy the upper 

part of an epithermal system. The deep drill hole designed to test the lower 

part of the system did not intercept the vein system. Therefore, there still 

exists the possibility that higher-grade mineralization may be found at depth 

along the vein system. More drilling will ultimately be necessary to test this 

hypothesis. A US $270,00 program is recommended. 



 8 

 

Item 2.   Introduction 

 

This Technical Report was prepared for Minerals North LLC, the US 

subsidiary of a joint venture between Uranium North Resources Corp. and 

Diamonds North Resources Ltd. These two publicly-traded Canadian 

companies each have a 50% undivided interest in the Golden Reward 

property. All work in the US is done through Minerals North LLC. The 

purpose of the Technical Report is primarily to formulate a plan for future 

exploration. Specifically, this might consist of additional geophysical work, 

limited soil sampling, and drilling.  

 

Data included within this report comes partly from a previous property 

report completed by US Borax & Chemical Corporation (Ebisch, 1989) and 

partly from field work completed by Minerals North geologists during the 

summer of 2012. Terms of reference used in this report relate primarily to 

gold and silver concentrations in geochemical analyses. These terms 

included troy ounces, grams/tonne (abbreviated as g/t), parts per million 

(abbreviated as ppm), and ounces per ton (abbreviated as opt). Troy ounces 

are used to measure the weight of precious metals. The reason that several 

different terms are used is because the work done on geochemical analyses 

by US Borax & Chemical Corporation two decades ago was often reported 

as opt gold, whereas contemporary geochemical analyses are commonly 

reported as g/t or ppm. Other terms of reference include feet/meters and 

acres/hectares. A short list of equivalencies is shown below: 

 

1.0 ton = 2,000 pounds 

1.0 tonne = 2204 pounds 

1,000,000 grams = 1.0 tonne 

1.0 g/t = 1.0 ppm 

1.0 g/t = 0.032 opt troy 

31.1 g/t = 1.0 opt troy 

1.0 meters = 3.28 feet 

1.0 hectare=2.47 acres 

 

The author has spent a significant amount of time on the property. Much of 

this time was spent during 1989 and 1990 when the author managed an 

exploration program on the property. The exact amount of time spent on the 

property in 1989 and 1990 is uncertain, but it is in excess of thirty days.  

 



 9 

 

 

Only 2 days were spent on the property in 2011 and two days in 2012  by the 

author because much of the field work was completed by other Minerals 

North geologists. The author has reviewed the data generated during the 

2012 exploration program by Minerals North geologists and has found that 

data to be accurate, satisfactory, and credible. 

 

During 1989, drilling by US Borax tested the epithermal vein system from 

three drill sites. These holes ranged in depth from 180 to 508 feet. The 

results of this drilling was encouraging, intercepting up to 66 feet (20 

meters) averaging 0.027 opt (0.93 grams/tonne) gold. A seventh hole from a 

fourth drill site was completed to a depth of 1405 feet ( 428 meters) in 1990 

(Table 2). The intent of this hole was to test the deeper parts of the 

epithermal system. However, the angle of the drill hole, begun at -80 

degrees, may have steepened significantly, not reaching the target. The hole 

was abandoned because of the lack of a projected intercept, and the lower 

parts of the epithermal system still remain untested. The lower part of the 

epithermal system is the primary target of the proposed exploration program. 

 

Item 3.   Reliance on Other Experts 

 

There has been no reliance on other experts. 

 

Item 4.   Property Description and Location 

 

The Golden Reward Property lies within the eastern part of the Tertiary Age 

Toroda Graben in Okanogan County, northeastern Washington State, USA. 

The property consists of 1376 acres ( 557 hectares) of private land that are 

owned by Joel and Sara Kretz of Wauconda, Washington (Figure 2). These 

lands lie in sections 1, 2, 3, 11, and 12, Township 38 North, Range 31 East, 

Willamette Meridian. Mineral rights are owned by two entities. Joel and 

Sara Kretz (husband and wife) own 50% of the mineral rights on the 

majority of the land. The other 50% of the mineral rights on the majority of 

the land are owned by Charles Eder Jr. and Sally Eder (husband and wife). 

The Eder family was the previous owner of the property. They retained 50% 

of the mineral rights when they sold the land to the Kretz family. However, 

on one small piece (16.7 acres or 6.8 hectares) of the leased land, the mineral 

rights are owned 100% by the Kretz family because that parcel of land was 

not acquired until 2003. This roughly 16.7 acre parcel was formerly an 



 10 

unpatented claim (Grethe Lode) on former BLM land that was purchased by 

Kretz in 2003 (Figure 2). To the west in section 3, roughly 140 acres of 

Kretz land has severed mineral rights that are owned by the federal 

government. Kretz has acquired these mineral rights by staking the Roan 

Horse 1-9 claims (Figure 2). Those claims are not currently part of the lease 

agreement. The addition of those claims to the lease package has been 

agreed to in principle, but that acquisition has not yet been finalized, and 

there is no guarantee that the claims will become part of the property. The 

Lease and Option to Purchase agreement was signed by all parties on or 

before May 17, 2012. The agreement will terminate on August 31, 2033 

unless sooner surrendered or otherwise terminated, or until the earlier 

exercise of a purchase option is completed. If the purchase option is 

exercised, all rentals paid to the owners by lessee may be offset against 

production royalties payable to the owners within five years after the 

exercise of the option. All funds are denominated in U.S. Dollars. The 

purchase option calls simultaneously for both: 

 

 Purchase of the surface estate for $ 8 million 

 Net Smelter Return Royalty of 3% will remain, although the lessee 
retains the option to purchase ½ of the 3% royalty for $ 2 million 

 

Prior to exercise of the purchase option, annual payments must be made to 

keep the agreement in force. These payments are listed below: 

 

 $20,000 upon signing of agreement. This payment has been made. 

 $25,000 on or before September 1, 2012. This payment has been 
made. 

 $30,000 on or before September 1, 2013. 

 $40,000 on or before September 1, 2014 and each subsequent 
September 1 up and until including September 1, 2032. 

 

The lessee must also complete at least 3,000 feet of exploration drilling prior 

to December 31, 2015. There are no back-in rights, agreements or other 

encumbrances to the property except for a 0.25% net smelter royalty that is 

due the author. This royalty can be bought at any time for the value of 300 

ounces of gold. There are no known environmental liabilities or any 

significant factors and risks that may affect access, title, or the right or 

ability to perform work on the property. There are no permits that must be 

acquired to conduct the proposed work program on the property. 



 11 

Item 5.   Accessibility, Climate, Local Resources, Infrastructure, and       

Physiography 

 

Topography on the Golden Reward property consists of steep, but somewhat 

rounded hills that are incised by narrow valleys. Elevation ranges from 3000 

feet (915 meters) in the valley of Bodie Creek up to 4400 feet (1341 meters) 

above mean sea level near the ridge tops to the north and south of Bodie 

Creek. The hills have average slopes of roughly 25-30 degrees. There are 

few places that are dangerous to walk due to rugged topography. Vegetation 

consists primarily of groves of coniferous trees that are separated by 

grassland. The Kretz family uses the acreage primarily for raising horses. 

 

The Golden Reward property is readily accessible from the west off the 

paved Toroda Creek Road and from the east via improved forest service 

roads, both of which permit access to the Bodie Creek Road that crosses the 

Golden Reward property. Gates that can be locked are found on the Bodie 

Creek access road at both the east and west ends of the Kretz property. 

 

The paved Toroda Creek Road intersects state highway 21 about 10 miles 

(16 km) south of the Kretz Property. State highway 21 leads to two major 

settlements. The town of Republic lies about 20 miles (32 km) to the east 

and the town of Tonasket lies about 20 miles (32 km) to the west of the 

intersection of highway 21 and the Toroda Creek Road. Many goods and 

services are available in both Republic and Tonasket. Highway 21 can be 

used by semi-trucks year-round, but the Toroda Creek Road can be use by 

semi-trucks for  only about eleven months of the year. This is because travel 

by semi-trucks is sometimes weight-restricted on the Toroda Creek Road 

during spring break-up. 

 

The climate is semi-arid, with hot summers and cold winters. Temperatures 

range from a maximum of about 90 degrees Fahrenheit (32 degrees Celsius) 

in the summer to a minimum of -30 degrees Fahrenheit (-34 degrees Celsius) 

during the winter. The area receives about 3 feet (0.9 meters) of snow in an 

average winter. A mining operation in this area could operate year-round. 

The nearby Buckhorn mine operates on a year-round basis. There is a 

sufficient amount of private land available that is under lease to provide 

ample infrastructure for a mining operation. Power is available roughly two 

miles from the area of the vein system. Water sufficient for drilling is readily 

available on the property from a private well. The existence of water 

sufficient to support a mining operation is uncertain. Mining personnel and 



 12 

skilled labor are available nearby in Republic or Tonasket. The area has had 

several modern gold mines in operation during the last two decades which 

have yielded over three million ounces of gold.  

 

Sufficient tailings storage areas for an underground mine operation is 

available in several places on the property. Sufficient room is also available 

for waste disposal, heap leach pads, and processing plant sites. The target on 

the property is an underground mineable target and not an open pit. 

Therefore, there is much extra room available for many other uses.  

 

Item 6.   History 

 

Until 1896, the property was part of the Colville Indian Reservation. When 

gold was discovered in the Republic area about 1896, the entire north half of 

the Indian reservation was opened to settlement by non-natives for mining 

and homesteading. Prior to 1989, the property was owned by the Eder 

Family. In 1989, the property was sold to the Kretz family, the present 

owners. The Eder family, however, sagaciously retained 50% of the mineral 

rights on the property. 

 

Previous work on the property occurred in two phases. The first phase 

occurred between  approximately 1890 and the early part of the 20
th
 Century. 

During that period, several prospect pits and one adit were completed on the 

property along the epithermal vein system. Another adit completed about 

one-half mile to the north of the property was referenced in survey records 

from 1893. There are no substantial known records of this early work in the 

public domain. The second phase occurred during 1989 and 1990 when US 

Borax & Chemical Corp initiated a modern exploration program that 

culminated in the drilling of seven holes to test the epithermal vein system. 

No drilling is known to have been done prior to that time. Previous 

exploration tested the epithermal vein system only at shallow depths. One 

hole was attempted for a deep test of the vein system, but the hole did not 

intercept the target at the projected depth. The property has no historic 

mineral resource or mineral reserve. There has been no known production 

from the property. Over 3 million ounces of gold has been produced from 

the Republic Graben, which lies to the east of the Toroda Graben. The 

Toroda Graben, which lies to the west and contains the Golden Reward 

Property (Figure 3), has only produced around 20,000 ounces of gold. 

 



 13 

 

 

Item 7.   Geological Setting and Mineralization 

 

Regional Geology 

 

In northeastern Washington, the geology is characterized primarily by 

alternating Tertiary Age, northerly-trending grabens and the high grade 

metamorphic terranes that lie between the grabens (Figure 3). The property 

lies within the Toroda Graben, a Tertiary Age geologic feature that may 

have formed due to extensional tectonics. Alternatively, the "grabens" could 

possibly be part of a folded upper plate allochthon. Limited evidence for this 

includes the existence of gently-dipping faults such as the Lambert Creek 

Thrust in the Republic Graben, the fact that there are virtually no volcanic 

rock dikes in the horsts between the grabens, and the locally arcuate trace of  

veins within the Toroda Graben (Pearson, 1967). There is no conclusive 

evidence for this however. It is merely part of a healthy, multiple working 

hypothesis. The grabens are filled primarily with Tertiary Age volcanic 

rocks and subordinate amounts of Permo-Triassic Age sedimentary rocks. 



 14 

The intervening metamorphic core complexes contain gneissic, metamorphic 

rocks of uncertain age. 

 

The Toroda Graben is similar to the nearby Republic Graben where over 

three million ounces of gold have been produced. However, the Toroda 

Graben has seen only limited gold production. Most of this has come from 

the nearby Bodie Mine (Figure 4). The Bodie Mine is a gold/silver-bearing 

epithermal vein/breccia system that is somewhat similar to the Golden 

Reward vein system. Estimated production from the Bodie Mine from 1902-

1916 is 6500 ounces of gold (Moore, 1934). Further production from 1933-

1943 is estimated to be 7500-9000 ounces of gold (Moen, 1980). The 

amount of production from the Bodie Mine has no bearing on the quantity 

and grade of mineralized material that exists on the Golden Reward 

Property. 

 

 Local Geology 

 

Stratigraphy 

 

The Toroda and Republic grabens are linear features that both average about 

7 miles in width (Figure 3). The Republic Graben lies to the east and the 

Toroda Graben lies to the west. The Toroda Graben is about 45 miles (72 

km) in length while the Republic Graben is over 70 miles (113 km) in 

length. Within both the Toroda and Republic grabens, there is a well-

documented stratigraphy (Moen, 1980 and Muessig, 1967), as shown in 

Table 1: 

 

Structure 

 

Structures in the vicinity of the Golden Reward property are primarily north-

trending. The dominant structures are the graben-margin faults that lie about 

6 miles ( 10 km) apart. Both the eastern and western edges of the Toroda 

Graben are marked by sub-parallel, northerly-trending fault zones (Figure 3). 

The primary target on the Golden Reward property is a northerly-trending 

epithermal vein/breccia system that is likely part of a fault zone that is sub-

parallel to the graben-margin faults. Some of the northerly-trending fault 

zones are arcuate in plan view (Pearson, 1967), suggesting collapse 

structures that could be a result of local, incomplete caldera development.  

 

 



 15 

 

 

 

 

 

Mineralization 

 

Important mineralization in the grabens is found in two distinct rock types. 

Most of the gold mineralization is hosted by epithermal hot springs 

vein/breccia systems. However, economic gold mineralization is also found 

in skarn/replacement deposits in Permo-Triassic Age sedimentary rocks. 

 

The gold/silver-bearing epithermal hot springs vein/breccia systems in the 

Toroda Graben are found primarily along northerly-trending faults. The 

most important deposit found thus far is the Bodie deposit (Figure 4), which 

has produced roughly 15,000 ounces of gold historically. Similarly, 

significant epithermal mineralization, primarily silver, has been identified 

and has undergone cursory mining at the Silver Bell Mine (Figure 4).  

 

 



 16 

TABLE 1 – GENERALIZED GRABEN STRATIGRAPHY 

 

Late Eocene Age Klondike Mountain Formation 

3936 (1200 meters) in thickness 

Dark grey vitric lava flows and flow breccias, glassy basaltic flows 

Pale colored volcanic breccias/pyroclastics and lavas 

 

------------------------- Angular Unconformity ----------------------------- 

  

Volcanic breccia, conglomerate, sandstone and tuffaceous shale 

 

-------------------------- Angular Unconformity----------------------------- 

 

Middle Eocene Age Sanpoil Volcanics 

3280-3936 feet (1000-1200 meters) in thickness 

Quartz latite to andesite volcanic flows 

 

Early Eocene Age O'Brien Creek Formation 

1312-4264 feet (400-1300 meters) in thickness 

Locally bedded, light-colored tuffaceous sandstone, siltstone, shale, and 

conglomerate. 

 

--------------------------- Angular Unconformity --------------------------- 

 

Permo-Triassic Age Anarchist Group 

 

Greenstone, greywacke, argillite, phyllite, marble, and conglomerate  

 

 

The primary mineralization on the Golden Reward property is found within 

an epithermal vein/breccia system that is similar to that found at the Bodie 

Mine. Unlike the Golden Reward, the Bodie Mine property contains a large 

low-grade breccia zone along the fault that controls the vein system. 

However, the mineralization at the Bodie Mine has been studied intensely 

for over 100 years, while the mineralization at Golden Reward (Figure 4) 

had lain dormant for over 50 years and was completely undocumented prior 

to the work completed by US Borax some two decades ago. The geologic 

evaluation of the Golden Reward vein system is still in it's infancy. Thus, 

there may be greater potential for discovery of unknown mineralization 



 17 

because of the relative paucity of exploration work completed on the Golden 

Reward property. 

 

In the Republic Graben that lies to the east, epithermal gold/silver 

mineralization is hosted within the Sanpoil Volcanics and the unconformity 

that lies at the base of the overlying Klondike Mountain Formation. The 

Klondike Mountain Formation is post-mineral in age in the Republic 

Graben. However, in the Toroda Graben, important epithermal gold/silver 

mineralization is hosted by the San Poil Volcanics and at least part of the 

Klondike Mountain Formation. The reason for this disparity is unclear, but it 

may permit the existence of telescoping vein systems that could have 

multiple, steeply-dipping epithermal occurrences over a greater stratigraphic 

range, with resultant enhanced tonnage potential. However, evidence for this 

is lacking. It is merely mentioned as a possibility to be kept in mind as the 

exploration program proceeds. 

 

Property Geology 

 

Stratigraphy 

 

The stratigraphy exposed on the Golden Reward property belongs to the 

Tertiary Age Klondike Mountain Formation. The rock types range from 

andesite to trachyte in composition along with breccias and agglomerates of 

similar composition. All lithologies were determined from hand specimens, 

so are subject to some degree of inaccuracy. The volcanic units appear to be 

gently-dipping in most cases. 

 

The upper part of the volcanic stratigraphy on the Golden Reward property 

consists primarily of a lavender-colored, porphyritic trachyte to 

trachyandesite (Figure 5). Fine to coarse-grained alkali feldspars are present 

along with sparse amounts of biotite and hornblende. This unit may be post-

mineral in age. Underlying the aforementioned zone is a beige to light 

brown-colored aphanitic to fine-crystalline phaneritic volcanic sequence that 

very locally contains small altered alkali feldspars and small hornblende 

phenocrysts. Underlying the beige to light brown colored unit is a volcanic 

breccia with clasts that are up to several inches in diameter in a tan to 

purple-colored, locally siliceous, fine-grained matrix. The lowest 

stratigraphic unit exposed on the property is another fragmental volcanic 

unit that appears to be a volcanic breccia/agglomerate that is interbedded 

with trachyandesite flows. 



 18 

 

 
 

 

The above stratigraphy appears to be cut by both the gold/silver bearing 

vein/breccia and dark grey, aphanitic, andesite dikes. The gold/silver bearing 

vein/breccia, however, may not cut the entire stratigraphic sequence. The 

andesite dikes generally trend NNE and are sub-parallel to known structures 

and the primary mineralized zone. The dikes are westerly-dipping, with an 

average dip of roughly 70 degrees, mimicking the dip of the primary 

mineralized zone.   

 

Item 8.   Deposit Types 

 

The primary deposit type under investigation is that of an epithermal 

precious metal hot spring system (Figure 6) although thus far no 

paleosurface sinter has been found. It may have been eroded, could be 

covered by post-mineral volcanics where it is not eroded, or it may never 

have formed. In the case of the latter, we may be only investigating a 

precious metal-bearing epithermal fissure vein system. That target, however, 



 19 

has a potential similar to that of the hot spring system with a paleosurface 

sinter for narrow zones of high-grade gold mineralization, especially where 

zones of dilation and structural intersections occur along the vein system. 

 
 

In the Republic Graben to the east, epithermal vein mineralization occurs in 

the San Poil Formation. It does not occur in the Klondike Mountain 

Formation in the Republic Graben because that formation is post-mineral in 

age. In the Republic Graben, mineralization is also found in lakebeds that 

occur at the San Poil/Klondike Mountain unconformity. In the Toroda 

Graben, however, epithermal vein mineralization is found in the Klondike 

Mountain Formation. Therefore, it is possible that mineralization at the 

Golden Reward property could occur over a greater elevation range if 

multiple pulses of mineralization occur over a greater stratigraphic interval 

because the epithermal system was relatively long-lived. Simply stated, the 

mineralized system could be telescoped. It should be cautioned, however, 

that this is merely speculation, but that possibility should be kept in mind as 

exploration drilling moves forward. If mineralization was telescoped, it 

could occur over a few thousand feet of elevation, rather than the 1500 or so 

feet that is commonly shown as a maximum in simplistic, single-phase, 



 20 

epithermal models such as that seen in Figure 6. Finally, if mineralization 

occurred during both San Poil and lower Klondike Mountain time in the 

Toroda Graben, there could be sinters at the San Poil/Klondike Mountain 

unconformity in the Toroda Graben that lie undiscovered at depth on the 

Golden Reward Property.  

 

The depth to the unconformity at Golden Reward is uncertain. Deep drill 

hole GR-7 was intended to intercept the unconformity close to the deep parts 

of the vein system. The hole was planned for -65 degrees, but it was drilled 

at -80 degrees. The hole never intercepted the vein system due to this revised 

orientation. That hole, completed by US Borax in 1990, did not intercept 

mineralization or any obvious unconformity at a depth of about 1400 feet 

(427 meters) below surface. If the unconformity is similar to that found in 

the Republic Graben, it would contain a significant amount of terrestrial 

sediments that would be an obvious contrast to the volcanic rocks of the 

Klondike Mountain Formation. 

 

Item 9.   Exploration 

 

During the summer of 2012, Minerals North geologists conducted a surface 

sampling program over selected portions of the property. This work yielded 

about 86 rock samples and 230 soil samples. No duplicate rock samples 

were taken. Duplicate soil samples were taken at every twentieth soil station. 

All of the soil sampling was done over and adjacent to the northerly-trending 

mineralized zone that is the target of the exploration program. Rock 

sampling was done over much of the property. The geochemical results of 

this sampling are not included in this report for the sake of brevity. They are 

on file at the Diamonds North office in Vancouver, B.C., Canada. A ground 

magnetic survey was also completed over the property in 2012 by Minerals 

North geologists. No geologic mapping was completed on the property. 

 

The rock sampling showed that the mineralized trend tested in 1989 and 

1990 was the single most important zone of gold mineralization exposed on 

the property (Figure 7). This verified much of the work that was originally 

done by US Borax in 1989. The rock samples taken were grab samples that 

averaged about 2.2 pounds (one kilogram) in weight. None of those samples 

were representative of any given width of mineralization. As such, they 

should not be relied upon to be indicative of any significant volume of 

mineralization. Areas of alteration were sampled elsewhere on the property, 

but they failed to return significant gold mineralization (Figure 7). The rock 



 21 

samples were taken based upon visible alteration, not any methodical grid 

system. Rock samples were analyzed using the ALS GLOBAL ICP-21 and 

ME-MS41 analysis on a 30 gram sample. 

 

 

 
 

 

All assays of previous core and surface samples done in 1989 and 1990 were 

done by the US Borax in-house lab in Anaheim, California under the capable 

supervision of Bob Deal, chief geochemist. It should be cautioned that this 

lab may not have been accredited under NI 43-101 standards. However, 

surface sampling by Minerals North geologists in 2012 indeed returned 

similar gold values to those obtained by the US Borax in-house lab two 

decades earlier. The highest grade grab samples taken from the vein system 

by US Borax geologists, a maximum of 0.75 opt (23.3 g/t) gold, came from 

lower elevation exposures of the vein system. Minerals North geologists 

sampled the lower elevation outcrops of vein system on both sides of Bodie 

Creek with similar results. On the south side of Bodie Creek, the maximum 

gold grade in Minerals North grab samples was 9.77 g/t (0.31 opt) gold. On 



 22 

the north side of Bodie Creek at one of the lowest elevation showings, the 

maximum gold grade in their grab samples was 13.95 g/t (0.45 opt) gold. 

The aforementioned samples are just examples of high-grade grab samples 

that were taken in similar areas by both the previous operator and Minerals 

North geologists. These sample results were stated merely for comparative 

purposes, and should not be construed to be representative of any potentially 

economic mineralization that might exist on the Golden Reward Property. 

 

The rock sample coverage was adequate for this early stage of exploration 

because an attempt was made to sample all rocks that had visible alteration. 

Rocks without visible alteration were not sampled because of their sheer 

abundance. The low sulfidation epithermal vein systems of the nearby 

Republic District are characterized by a lack of widespread alteration. The 

alteration zones around those veins are commonly only about 1-2 meters in 

width. Conversely, high sulfidation epithermal vein systems commonly have 

alteration envelopes that range in width up a hundred meters or more. 

 

Roughly 230 soil samples were taken over and adjacent to the primary 

mineralized zone (Figure 8). Gold content of soils was determined by ICP 

using the ALSGLOBAL Au-ICP21 method which assayed a 25 gram 

sample. Gold content of soils samples ranged from 0.0004 ppm to 0.070 

ppm. Soil sampling was conducted over the main part of the mineralized 

trend. Many of the soil samples were taken from material that may have 

been till. The samples were taken from about 20 centimeters beneath the 

base of the "O" soil horizon. The area sampled is shown in figure 8. Soil 

lines were run in an E-W direction. Most of the soil line spacing was 50 

meters, with three lines spaced 25 meters apart. Along the lines, samples 

were taken every 25 meters. The variability of gold content within duplicate 

samples was not unusual with respect to gold mineralization. Overall, the 

gold contents found within the duplicates might best be characterized as 

"reproducible" in the opinion of the author. 

 

 



 23 

 
 

 

Soil sampling covered an adequate area with both adequate line and station 

spacing. No other areas of significant mineralization were discovered during 

the investigation. The target was well-defined by the soil sampling in areas 

where the till thickness was minimal. Enough outcrop exists on the property 

that any sizeable zone of northerly-trending alteration (similar to that of the 

primary mineralized zone) that comes to the surface should be partially 

exposed. There is a possibility that an E-W trending mineralized zone might 

lie undiscovered in the Bodie Creek drainage since it is such a prominent 

topographic linear. However, soil samples would not be useful in that case 

because of the deep overburden. 

 

A ground magnetic survey was undertaken by Minerals North geologists on 

the Golden Reward Property (Figure 9). Although mineralization there is not 

known to be particularly magnetic or diamagnetic, it is well know that 

structure is deucedly  important with respect to the locus of epithermal vein 

systems. Ground magnetic lines were run in an E-W direction. The line 

spacing was approximately 100 meters. Twenty-three discontinuous lines 



 24 

were completed. The lines were discontinuous due to the irregularity of the 

property boundaries (Figure 9). Roughly 36 line miles (58  line kilometers) 

of ground magnetic survey were completed. Both the mobile ground 

magnetometer units and the base station were operated with a 60 Hertz filter 

to minimize the effect of a power line on the property. Magnetic readings 

were taken automatically every two seconds by the mobile ground 

magnetometers, and every three seconds by the base station. 

  

The magnetic data defined the trace of the northerly-trending primary 

mineralized zone (Figure 9). It corresponds to a well-defined northerly-

trending magnetic low. A minor, similar oriented magnetic low also exists 

on the west side of the property.  

 

Overall, the magnetic data shows a negative magnetic anomaly in the eastern 

part of the property and a relatively strong magnetic anomaly in the western 

part of the property. The reason for this disparity is uncertain, although the 

negative magnetic anomaly to the east is near the graben margin. Thus, the 

volcanic rocks to the west might be much thicker. Alternatively, the more 

magnetic rocks near the surface on the west side may not have been 

deposited on the east side where there was less subsidence near the graben 

margin. The regional geologic map completed by Pearson (1967) is too 

generalized to refute or support the above notions. Previous mapping by US 

Borax geologists also failed to find any obvious stratigraphic discontinuity 

there that could explain the disparity (Ebisch, 1989). 

 

The ground magnetic survey had one limitation. It was oriented primarily  to 

cross and define major, northerly-trending structures, a task which it 

successfully accomplished. The fact that N-S line spacing was 328 feet (100 

meters) and E-W readings were taken every two seconds during a 

geophysical traverse means that a bias was introduced because E-W readings 

may have been spaced every ten feet (3 meters) or so and N-S data point 

spacing was perhaps thirty times as great. Therefore, E-W trending breaks in 

the magnetic data may not have been well-defined by the survey. These E-W 

trending breaks could indicate faults, important as structural intersections 

along the northerly-trending mineralized zone. These structural intersections 

might well provide an important locus for wide, dilated zones of gold/silver 

mineralization, permitted by the substantial ground preparation where the 

structures intersect the northerly-trending mineralized zone. 

 



 25 

 
 

Item 10. Drilling 

 

Seven drill holes have been completed on the property. A summary of this 

drilling can be seen in Table 2. Cross-sections with assay results and 

summary geology can be seen in figures 10-12. The location of those drill 

holes is shown in figure 5. No cross section was made for DDH GR-7 

because there was no vein intercept and the drill logs are unavailable. All 

drilling on the property was done by US Borax in 1989 and 1990. No 

drilling was done in 2012 by Minerals North. No cross section was made 

for DDH GR-7 because there was no vein intercept and the drill logs are 

unavailable. 

 

Drill holes GR-1 through GR-6 were completed from three different sites 

(Figures 10-12). At Site 1, Drill hole GR-1 intercepted the vein system at a 

vertical depth of about 50 meters, but gold was generally lacking. Drill Hole 

GR-2 also intercepted the vein, cutting 3.6 meters that averaged 0.377 g/t 

(0.011 opt) gold at a vertical depth of about 80 meters. The true width of that 

intercept is uncertain.  



 26 

 

 
 

 

 

 



 27 

 

 

 

 

 

 



 28 

 

 

 

 

 

 



 29 

 

 

At Site 2, Drill hole GR-3 intercepted the vein system, cutting 20 meters (66 

feet) that averaged 0.92 g/t (0.027 opt) gold at a vertical depth of about 30 

meters. The true width of that intersection is uncertain. Drill hole GR-4 

steepened and did not intercept the vein system. 

 

At Site 3, Drill hole GR-5 intercepted the vein system, cutting  9.8 meters 

averaging 1.19 g/t (0.035 opt) gold at a vertical depth of about 15 meters. 

Within that zone was a short, higher grade interval that contained 4.2 meters 

averaging 3.01 g/t (0.088 opt) gold. The true widths of those intercepts is 

uncertain. A second, lower intercept cut a 1.8 meter interval that averaged 

0.27 g/t (0.008 opt) gold at a vertical depth of about 25 meters. Drill hole 

GR-6 intercepted the vein system, cutting 7.9 meters that averaged 0.75 g/t 

(0.022 opt) gold at a vertical depth of about 23 meters. A second, lower 

intercept in GR-6 cut 3.0 meters averaging 0.34 g/t (0.01 opt) gold at a 

vertical depth of about 40 meters. The true width of those two intercepts is 

uncertain. 

 



 30 

Drill hole GR-7 did not intersect the vein mineralization. 

 

Insufficient drilling has been done to determine any specific trends in 

mineralization with respect to depth. The variability of gold content noted in 

the drilling may be only a function of minor variability in the mineralized 

zone, common to epithermal gold occurrences. That variability could simply 

reflect the rock clast abundance within the vein system. 

 

Item 11. Sample Preparation, Analyses, and Security 

 

During the summer of 2012, Minerals North geologists conducted a surface 

sampling program over selected portions of the property. This work yielded 

about 230 soil samples and 86 rock samples (Figure 7 & 8). The samples 

were taken on a daily basis from the field to a storage area in a carport at the 

house that the company had rented in Republic, Washington. The samples 

were not kept under lock and key, but Minerals North employees were 

present much of the time at the house in Republic.  Further, the house and 

sample storage area were located at the end of a private road, precluding 

unauthorized traffic flow. There is no indication that any of the samples 

were tampered with. Periodically, rock samples were taken or shipped to the 

ALS Global laboratory facility located in Vancouver, B.C., Canada. If 

convenient, they were transported by Minerals North geologists. 

Alternatively, they were also shipped by Fedex if no Minerals North 

geologists were going to Vancouver on other business or vacation. All soil 

samples were shipped to the ALS Global facility in Winnemucca, Nevada 

because soils cannot be transported across US/Canadian border prior to 

sample preparation without a customs agent handling them. 

 

The ALS Global laboratory is independent of the issuer. ALS Global has 

developed and implemented, at each of its facilities, a Quality Management 

System (QMS) designed to ensure the production of consistently reliable 

data. Perhaps the most important aspect of the QMS is the process of 

external auditing by recognized organizations and the maintenance of ISO 

registrations and accreditations. The QMS operates under global and 

regional Quality Control (QC) teams that are responsible for the execution 

and monitoring of the Quality Assurance (QA) and Quality Control (QC) 

programs on a regular basis in each department. The ALS Global laboratory 

is ISO 9001:2008 accredited (sample preparation) and ISO 17025 accredited 

(analytical methods). These accreditations provide independent verification 

for a client that a QMS is in operation at that facility. 



 31 

To further ensure analytical precision and accuracy, ALS Global also 

implements a rigorous protocol that includes the use of unmineralized 

material to clean sample preparation equipment between samples and  

insertion of reagent blanks, reference standards, and replicate samples. A 

blank is inserted at the beginning, standards are inserted at random intervals, 

and duplicates are analyzed at the end of the sample batch. For every 50 

samples, a duplicate is prepared. If necessary, additional quality control 

samples can be added. All data gathered for quality control samples is 

automatically captured, sorted, and retained in the QC database. If any data 

for reference materials, duplicates, or blanks falls beyond the control limits 

established, that data is automatically flagged. The department manager 

conducting the final review of the Certificate is then made aware that a 

problem with the dataset may exist. Every batch of samples analyzed has a 

dual approval and review process. The individual analytical runs are 

monitored and approved by the analyst. The final work order has a second 

and very detailed review prior to final work order approval and Certification. 

 

The results of the rock/soil sampling and analyses were reviewed by the 

author. In his opinion, no unusual, suspect, or spurious analytical results 

have been reported. The sample security, preparation, and analytical results 

were standard and adequate. No employee, officer, director, or associate of 

the issuer conducted any aspect of sample preparation. All sample 

preparation was done by ALS Global personnel. 

 

The soil samples were taken at a depth of  about 8 inches (20 cm) beneath 

the base of the "O" soil horizon. Each soil sample weighed about 1.1 pounds 

(0.5 kilograms). The soil samples were dried  by ALS Global at their 

Winnemucca, Nevada facility and then sieved through a 75 micrometer sieve 

to remove coarse material, and subsequently split. Splits to be analyzed were 

sent to the ALS Global facility in Vancouver, B.C., Canada for analysis 

because the Winnemucca, Nevada facility has only sample preparation 

capabilities. Every 20
th

 soil sample was taken as a duplicate in the field to 

test for assay value replication. Soil samples were run using the ST43L-PKG 

analysis (gold by Aqua Regia digestion with ICP-MS finsh and MS-MS41L) 

using a 25 gram nominal sample weight.  

 

The rock samples consisted of grab samples of mineralized material that 

were picked based upon visible alteration and mineralization. None of the 

rock samples taken were representative of any given width of mineralization. 

Each rock sample weighed roughly 2.2 pounds (one kilogram). The rock 



 32 

samples were prepared by ALS Global at their Vancouver, B.C. facility. 

There, the samples were crushed in a jaw crusher, split with a riffle splitter, 

and then pulverized. After a split was pulverized, The rock samples were run 

for gold plus a full element suite. Rocks were analyzed by the Au-ICP 21 & 

ME-MS41 51 element suite by Aqua Regia/ICP-MS using a 30 gram 

nominal sample weight. Higher grade, gold/silver-bearing rock samples 

were also analyzed using a gravimetric finish with a 30 gram sample. Rock 

and soil geochemical analyses are not included in this report for the sake of 

brevity. They are kept at the Diamonds North office in Vancouver, B.C., 

Canada. 

 

Item 12. Data Verification 

 

The author conducted the exploration program undertaken by US Borax and 

Chemical Corporation on the Golden Reward Property in 1989 and 1990. He 

was responsible for the creation of a detailed report at that time based upon 

the results of the exploration program. Limited parts of this Technical 

Report are based upon that previous work. One limitation of the previous 

work is that the rock and core analyses done by US Borax in 1989 and 1990 

were done at an in-house lab that US Borax had in Anaheim, California. 

Although it is believed that the results from that in-house lab were accurate, 

the lab was probably not certified for NI 43-101 purposes. However, surface 

rock samples taken US Borax geologists in 1989 and 1990 yielded similar 

gold assay results to verification samples taken by Minerals North geologists 

in 2012. The author believes that the results from the US Borax in-house lab 

were accurate and done by reliable methods that were in vogue at that time.  

 

In 2012, data verification was undertaken by the author during and after the 

exploration program. All geochemical results from the exploration program 

were provided to the author by Minerals North personnel. In the authors 

opinion, the rock and soil sampling completed by Minerals North personnel 

in 2012 was adequate, accurate, credible, and devoid of any fraudulent or 

spurious data. In the author's opinion, the data appears to accurately reflect 

mineralization on the Golden Reward Property. 

 

Item 13. Mineral Processing and Metallurgical Testing 

 

There has been no mineral processing or metallurgical testing. 

 

 



 33 

Item 14. Mineral Resource Estimates 

 

No mineral resource estimates have been made. The relative lack of drilling 

completed thus far has made this task impossible. 

 

Item 15-22. OMITTED 

 

Item 23. Adjacent Properties 

 

The most important adjacent property is the historic Bodie Mine that lies 

about two miles northwest of the Golden Reward vein/breccia system 

(Figure 4). Northerly-trending, epithermal gold and silver vein/breccia 

mineralization there is hosted within lithoidal lava flows and pyroclastic 

breccias of the middle member of the Klondike Mountain Formation. 

(Moen, 1980). The property was mined sporadically from 1902-1944, 

producing an estimated total of 15,000-16,000 ounces of gold with an 

overall average grade of roughly 0.25-0.30 opt gold (Moore, 1934 and 

Derkey et al, 1990). Mineralization there is similar to that found on the 

Golden Reward property. However, mineralization found at the Bodie Mine 

is not necessarily indicative of mineralization that might exist on the Golden 

Reward property. 

 

Another important adjacent property is the Silver Bell Mine which lies about 

4 miles SSE of the Golden Reward vein/breccia system(Figure 4). Huntting 

(1956) reports that high-grade gold ore was shipped from surface pits prior 

to 1907. In 1940, Silver Bell Mining Company shipped 29 tons of ore that 

yielded a net return of $244.03. Extensive core drilling in 1978 delineated a 

reported historic resource of 124,000 tons of rock that averaged 5.46 opt 

silver and 0.014 opt gold (Moen, 1980). This is not a NI 43-101 compliant 

resource, and it could not be verified by the author.  The Silver Bell Mine is 

near the center of the Zalla M/Silver Bell/American Flag mineralized belt, 

which is almost a mile long and several hundred feet wide. Host rocks for 

that mineralization consist of brecciated and silicified alkali trachyte of the 

middle member of the Klondike Mountain Formation. Recent drilling by 

Falcon Gold Corp. in 2012 intercepted up to 511 g/t (16.45 opt) silver over 

30 feet (9.14 meters). The true thickness of that intercept is uncertain. This is 

also an epithermal vein/breccia occurrence. Both the adjacent Zalla M and 

American Flag properties have produced small amounts of similar 

silver/copper-rich mineralization. The American Flag Mine reportedly 

produced 60 tons of ore averaging 36% copper, 16 opt (498 g/t) silver, and 



 34 

0.10 opt (3.1 g/t) gold (Patty, 1921). The Zalla M reportedly shipped about 

1,000 tons of ore averaging 24.42 opt silver in 1902-1903 (Patty, 1921). 

However, mineralization found along the Silver Bell Trend is not necessarily 

indicative of mineralization that might exist on the Golden Reward property. 

 

Item 24. Other Relevant Data and Information 

 

There is no other relevant data and information to the best of the authors 

knowledge. 

 

Item 25. Interpretations and Conclusions 

 

The exploration program undertaken by Minerals North in 2012 has 

successfully confirmed the surface mineralization and overall geology 

documented by US Borax in 1989 and 1990. Further, it expanded upon that 

knowledge by successfully implementing both a limited soil sampling 

program over the primary zone of documented mineralization and a ground 

magnetic survey over the entire property. The soil geochemical program has 

successfully traced the known mineralized zone where overburden depth 

was not excessive. Due to the abundance of outcrop on the property, it seems 

unlikely that further soil sampling is necessary except on the west side of the 

property where a minor, ground magnetic low exists. Northerly-trending 

mineralized zones of significant length should outcrop somewhere on the 

property unless they are covered in topographic lows, in which case soil 

geochemistry might not be effective due to deep overburden.  

 

The ground magnetic survey defined a strong, northerly-trending magnetic 

low that coincides roughly with the primary mineralized zone (Figure 9). A 

minor, northerly-trending, magnetic low feature is also seen on the west side 

of the property. There exists the possibility that, due to the data point 

spacing of the ground magnetic survey stations, that a bias was introduced 

into the survey that may have precluded the recognition of important E-W 

trending cross structures. Cross structures such as those, if they do exist, 

may be important as a locus of wider zones of epithermal gold/silver 

mineralization along the vein structure due to enhanced ground preparation. 

The lack of recognition of those cross structures, if any do exist, could deter 

the immediate success of a future drilling program. At this juncture, this is 

the only foreseeable shortcoming, if not remedied, that might have any 

impact upon the success of the proposed exploration program. 

 



 35 

 

The author has concluded that sufficient geologic incentive is present on the 

property to continue the exploration program. Exploration in the immediate 

future should consist of additional geophysics, limited soil sampling in 

section 3, followed by drilling of significant geophysical targets along the 

primary vein system, and perhaps along the minor magnetic low area that 

lies near the west end of the property. 

 

Item 26. Recommendations 

 

Several specific recommendations can be made regarding further work. 

None of the later recommended work is contingent upon the successful 

results of any of the earlier recommended work. A detailed budget for the 

proposed work is shown below: 

 

Work         Estimated Cost 

 

Drafting        $      1,000 

Geophysics (Ground Mag) 11 line miles   $      5,000 

Geophysics (SP) 6 line miles     $      3,000 

Soil geochemistry – collection     $      2,000 

Soil geochemical analysis     $      4,000 

Drilling (1000 meters@total $220/meter contractor cost) $  220,000 

Core Geochemical Analysis     $    10,000 

Geologist Expenses/Supplies     $      5,000 

Geologist Wages       $    20,000 

         $  270,000 

 

1) Several north-south ground magnetic lines should be run in select areas to 

better determine the possible existence of easterly-trending cross structures 

that might intersect northerly-trending zones of mineralization. Those 

intersections might be important as the location of wider zones of epithermal 

mineralization. Specifically, prior to any drilling, 5 ground magnetic lines 

with 100 meter spacing should be run in a N-S direction on the east side of 

the primary mineralized zone. Additionally, 5 ground magnetic lines with 

100 meter spacing should be run in a N-S direction on the west side of the 

primary mineralized zone shown in Figure 9. If any significant cross-

structures exist, this should help to define the location of those cross 

structures.  North-south ground magnetic lines should also be run with 100 



 36 

meter spacing adjacent to the minor ground magnetic low that lies near the 

west edge of the property. 

 

 

2) Several north-south, self-potential (SP) geophysical lines should be run 

adjacent to both the primary mineralized trend and the minor ground 

magnetic low that lies near the west end of the property. The survey should 

be run with 100 foot (30 meter) spacing and a 100 foot (30 meter) wire 

between the pots. This may enable us to find oxidizing sulfide bodies that 

exist near the redox boundary in the sub-surface.  

 

3) Several short soil lines, perhaps 500 meters in length, should be run in an 

E-W direction across the minor ground magnetic low that lies on the west 

side of the property where the overburden is deemed to be shallow enough to 

make soil sampling a successful, viable technique. 

 

4) Following the work proposed in recommendations 1-3, drilling should be 

undertaken to further test any primary mineralized trend anomalies and the 

minor, ground magnetic low that lies near the west side of the property. Any 

anomalous SP targets detected along the primary mineralized trend or the 

minor ground magnetic low that lies on the west side of the property that 

correspond with positive soil geochemistry should be drill-tested. The 

location, angle, orientation, and depth of any drill holes will be decided 

based upon the results of the proposed soil geochemistry, ground magnetic 

surveys, and SP surveys. Drilling should be implemented even if no 

additional targets are found by the proposals stated in recommendations 1-3 

because the primary mineralized trend has not been tested at depths greater 

than 260 feet (80 meters) below surface. Advancement to the drilling stage is 

not contingent upon the results of recommendations 1-3. No decision point 

is necessary until the drilling is completed. All core holes should be 

surveyed every 30-60 meters (100-200 feet) of depth for both bearing and 

inclination. All core samples should be kept in a locked building to 

ensure sample integrity. If any core samples contain coarse visible gold, 

those samples should be also be assayed using a metallic screen sample 

preparation method to reduce nugget effect and help characterize the gold 

size distribution. 

 

 

 

 



 37 

 

Item 27. References 

 

Buchanan, L.J., 1981, Precious Metal Deposits Associated with Volcanic 

Environments in the Southwest in Dickinson, R.W, and Payne, W.D., 

editors, Relations of Tectonics to Ore Deposits in the Sothern Cordillera: 

Arizona Geological Society Digest v. XIV, p237-262 

 

Corbett, C., and Leach, T., 1997, Southwest Pacific Rim Gold-Copper 

Systems: Structure, Alteration, and Mineralization: Short Course Manual 

5/97 Edition 

 

Derkey, R.E., Joseph, N.L., and Lasmanis, R., 1990, Metal Mines of 

Washington, Preliminary Report: Washington Division of Geology and 

Earth Resources, Open-File Report 90-18 

 

Ebisch, James F., 1989, Toroda Project (Golden Reward Property): 

Unpublished report for US Borax: 26 p., 2 appendices  

 

Ferguson, Bill, Lipin, Bruce, and Schruben, Paul, 2005, Mineral Resources 

Data System: US Geological Survey, Reston, Virginia 

 

Huntting, M.T., 1956, Inventory of Washington Minerals – Part 2, Metallic 

Minerals: Washington Division of Mines and Geology Bulletin 37, 2 

Volumes, 496 p. 

 

Ludington, Steve, Moring, Barry C., Miller, Robert J., Flynn, Kathryn S., 

and Hopkins, Melanie J., 2005, Preliminary Integrated Databases for the 

United States, Western States: California, Nevada, Arizona, and 

Washington: USGS Open File Report OFR 2005-1305, U.S. Geological 

Survey, Reston, Virginia, USA 

 

Moen, W.S., 1980, Myers Creek and Wauconda Mining Districts of 

Northeastern Okanogan County, Washington: Washington Department of 

Natural Resources, Division of Geology and Earth Resources Bulletin 73, 96 

p. 

 

 

 

 



 38 

 

Moore, F. Cushing, 1934, Report on the Bodie Mine, Okanogan County, 

Washington, 8 p. 

 

Morrison, G., Dong, G., and Jaireth, S., 1990, Textural Zoning in Epithermal 

Quartz Veins, Townsville, Australia: Klondike Exploration Services, 19 p. 

 

Muessig, Siegfried, 1967, Geology of the Republic Quadrangle and a Part of 

the Aeneas Quadrangle, Ferry County, Washington: USGS Bulletin 1216, 

135 p., 1 plate 

 

Olson, Duane, 1989, Short Summary on the Golden Reward 100" Scale 

Map: Private Report for US Borax, 3 p. 

 

Patty, E.N., 1921, The Metal Mines of Washington: Washington Geological 

Survey Bulletin 23, 366 p. 

 

Pearson, Robert C., 1967, Geologic Map of the Bodie Mountain Quadrangle, 

Ferry and Okanogan Counties, Washington: USGS Geologic Quadrangle 

Map GQ 636, 1 plate 

 

Tschauder, Richard J., 1989, Gold Deposits in Northern Ferry County, 

Washington in Geologic Guidebook for Washington and Adjacent Areas: 

Washington Division of Geology and Earth Resources Information Circular 

86 


'